Best Western International has arrived in yet another fast-growing Malaysian city, with the opening of its first hotel in Shah Alam. Strategically located in the heart of this up-and-coming city, BEST WESTERN i-City Shah Alam is a modern midscale hotel, offering optimum comfort, convenience and connectivity for both business and leisure travelers.

"As the capital of the state of Selangor, Shah Alam is a key economic hub in Malaysia. Located just 25km from Kuala Lumpur and 30km from KLIA, the city is at the heart of the country's development and provides an ideal setting for Best Western's new generation of contemporary hotels," said Ron Pohl, Best Western International's Senior Vice President of Brand Management & Development.

"I am delighted to be able to introduce the BEST WESTERN i-City Shah Alam, bringing our famous international standards to yet another exciting Malaysian city," he added.

The 18-story BEST WESTERN i-City Shah Alam features a total of 214 contemporary guest rooms and suites, all equipped with such modern amenities as 32-inch LCD televisions, minibars, working desks and tea and coffee making facilities. And as with all Best Western hotels worldwide, high-speed Wi-Fi is complimentary.

A selection of food and beverage options is available, including an all-day dining restaurant, 24-hour room service and a cafe with outdoor seating, allowing guests to sample a selection of delectable Asian and international flavors. And the corporate market is well catered-for with three meeting rooms able to handle up to 180 delegates.

BEST WESTERN i-City Shah Alam is also located next to i-City Waterworld, giving guests the opportunity to experience the fun and excitement of this popular theme park.

"Malaysia is an incredibly exciting market for Best Western International. With five hotels already open in the country and eight more in the pipeline, we look forward to serving the needs of ever more Malaysian and international guests in future," Mr. Pohl concluded.

BEST WESTERN i-City Shah Alam joins Best Western International's collection of midscale and luxury hotels in Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh, Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan.

Contact

Jane Kamolnithi

Marketing & Communications

Phone: +66 2 656 1260

Send Email