For those of you who read my previous article, Feminists Are To Blame For The Continued Abuse of Islamic Women, and who were interested in assisting Muslim women and, perhaps, lessening their burden and plight, here is some information and links for you to peruse. Let’s not just analyze and identify the problem, let’s create and work on solutions together. Below are some movements and organizations who pride themselves on assisting Muslim women in achieving equality (and to escape brutality and violence under Muslim law).

Women Living Under Muslim Laws (WLUML) is an international solidarity network that provides information, support and a collective space for women whose lives are shaped, conditioned or governed by laws and customs said to derive from Islam. The network aims to strengthen women’s individual and collective struggles for equality and their rights, especially in Muslim contexts.

Women’s Islamic Initiative in Spirituality and Equality (WISE) is a global program, social network and grassroots social justice movement led by Muslim women. WISE is empowering Muslim women to fully participate in their communities and nations and amplifying their collective voices. Muslim women have enjoyed a rich legacy of excellence in their roles as leaders, professionals, caregivers and activists, and Islamic history is an impressive record of their remarkable contributions as teachers and scholars of sacred text and law. WISE represents an authoritative Muslim women’s movement to reclaim this legacy.

Musawah is a global movement for equality and justice in the Muslim family. Launched in Malaysia in February 2009, Musawah builds upon centuries of efforts to promote and protect equality and justice in the family and in society. The rise of political Islam has led to absolutist understandings of Islam, used to pressure communities and individuals to adhere to particular ways of life – often discriminating against women. Over the past few decades, women activists, scholars and rights groups in Muslim contexts have been pushing for the recognition of equality between women and men, and to protect positive legal provisions where they exists. Musawah emerged to highlight these efforts.

Women for Women International has helped nearly 420,000 marginalized women in countries affected by war and conflict. We directly work with women in 8 countries offering support, tools, and access to life-changing skills to move from crisis and poverty to stability and economic self-sufficiency. They work with women in: Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Kosovo, Nigeria, Rwanda, and South Sudan.

Feel free to search “organizations against honor killings” and “equality for Muslim women” to find even more links.