Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

KUCHING: The beginning of Spring or Li Chun falls on Feb 4 this year, meaning the Year of the Sheep starts on Feb 4 although Chinese New Year is on Feb 19.

Many Chinese seek to enhance their New Year luck through feng shui practices. A common feng shui chart used as an annual guide is the Flying Star chart.

According to crystals shop Silver Point proprietor YS Tan, the Flying Star chart maps out the ways energy is distributed in nine areas of a location, especially in one’s home.

“The nine areas in the Flying Star chart represent different things, good or bad. They are each marked by a number and a corresponding direction. The position of these things change every year,” he told The Borneo Post in an exclusive interview yesterday.

Tan said people can use crystals or other feng shui-related items to enhance positive energy and repel negative energy.

“This year, East corresponds with the auspicious number 1, which represents position or relationship. Those born in the Year of the Rabbit should tap into this auspicious energy using crystals such as rose quartz, amazonite or rainbow tourmaline.

“The negative number 2 falls in the south-east area this year, representing sickness. Those affected are those born in the Dragon and Snake years. They can consider using black obsidian, black rutile or tektite to lessen the effect of this inauspicious star.

“Number 3 star is known to bring about arguments and misunderstandings. This year, it falls in the centre area, which is negative to everyone in the household. To lessen its effect, salt lamps are recommended. Salt lamps are natural Himalayan salt rocks made into lamps for their natural benefits, such as purifying the air and preventing radiation.

“The auspicious number 4 in the north-west direction this year stands to benefit people born in the Dog and Boar years. Crystals to enhance include aventurine or tiger’s eye.

“Number 5 known as the Disaster Star (Wu Wang) is the most inauspicious star as it brings about tragedies and bad luck. It is located in the west. Those born in the Year of the Rooster will feel the effect of this star. It is recommended to place copper coins or copper pixiu (mythical hybrid creature) in this area,” he said.

Tan pointed out that lay people do not need to know the complex feng shui knowledge behind the Flying Star chart to balance their lives.

He described the other stars and areas in the Flying Star chart.

“The number 6 star represents gambling or risk luck is located in the north-east. It is said to bring prosperity and good fortune. This year it will benefit those born in the Cow and Tiger years. To further enhance the auspicious star, recommended crystals are pyrite, gold rutile, citrine or berthierite.

“Number 7 is the robbery star, lying in the south direction this year and it could affect those born in the Horse year. Crystal cures include black obsidian or black tourmaline.

“The north area is poised to improve income and fortune, as that is where number 8 or wealth star takes up residence this year. Those born in the Rat year will benefit most from this star. Crystals to enhance it include green phantom, moldavite, green tourmaline, malachite and yellow jade, preferably pixiu.

“Finally number 9 is also an auspicious star known as Tai Sui star that will benefit Sheep and Monkey people. It lies in the south-west direction and is best enhanced with amethyst geodes, slabs or clusters,” he said.

Tan revealed that in conjunction with this year’s Flying Star chart, Silver Point will be stocking up on many related items.

“From Feb 4 to March 15, we will have a special promotion. Customers will enjoy a ‘Buy 1, Free 1’ promotion on all crystals.

“We will also be bringing in more stocks of ingots, crystal trees, pixiu, salt lamps and others. These are not only beneficial to their users but suitable for the Chinese New Year decor,” he said.

For more information, contact 016-8626786 or visit Silver Point at Level 3, One Jaya Shopping Mall. Alternatively, check their Facebook page at www.facebook.com/silverpoint.onejaya.