PETALING JAYA: For Yasmin Noorul Amin, teaching is not a profession, it is a calling.

The Chemistry teacher at SMK La Salle Petaling Jaya is the sole Malaysian among 50 teachers worldwide to be nominated for the prestigious Varkey GEMS Foundation Global Teacher Prize, which carries a prize money of US$1mil (RM3.59mil).

Yasmin told The Star that it was her father who suggested that she became a teacher after she graduated from Universiti Sains Malaysia with a Bachelor’s Degree in Applied Science (Industrial Chemistry).

“Once acquainted with teaching, I fell in love with it,” said the 37-year-old who is married to a businessman.

She was at the Tuanku Bainun Teachers College for 10 months.

“I found the training fun, but the real enjoyment came when I started teaching,” she said.

Yasmin, who has been teaching for 12 years, joined La Salle in January 2005 from a school in Taiping, Perak.

To her, a good teacher should not only be well versed in the subject and effective in imparting knowledge, but must also always be there for the students.

A calling: Yasmin is the only Malaysian teacher nominated for the award.

“You can’t take teaching as a profession. It has to be a calling. You need to love what you are doing.

“You have to have genuine love for your students and you can’t treat them as clients.

“My mobile phone is always on. It gets especially busy when examinations are near,” Yasmin said.

She finds it very satisfying to see her students enjoy learning.

“When my students are doing experiments, it gets a bit noisy, but I feel happy because I know they are enjoying themselves,” she said.

A former student, B. Shugheshabalan, was the first person to nominate Yasmin for the Varkey GEM prize.

The 18-year-old, who is now doing his A-Levels, said Yasmin gave him the confidence to experiment during chemistry class.

“She told me, you are who you are, do what you like doing,” said Shugheshabalan.

Yasmin’s husband, Amiruddin Abdul Aziz, 42, is “happy and super proud” that she has been shortlisted for the award.

SMK La Salle principal Chong Ah Loi, too, shared Yasmin’s joy at being in the running for the prize.

The prize money is split over 10 years, with the winner getting US$100,000 (RM359,000) annually.

The top 10 nominees will be named in the middle of next month and the winner will be announced during a forum in Dubai on March 16.