A MINER’S son who became one of Canada’s most celebrated artists has died aged 88.

Originally from Wingate, County Durham, Ted Harrison enjoyed great success as an artist after emigrating to The Yukon in the 1960s to take up a teaching post.

Such was his popularity that one British Columbia newspaper described him as “national treasure” and a film was made about his life.

At an early exhibition in Edmonton admirers camped all night in temperatures well below freezing to be the first in the gallery, while his later sold out long before they opened.

Mr Harrison also holds the Order of Canada, the country's highest honour, has multiple honorary doctorates and is an honorary admiral.

Following the artist’s death at his home in Victoria on Friday, January 16, a short but poignant statement was released on his website.

“He lived a full life and brightened countless lives. His art will continue to make the world a better place.

“Ted Harrison was one of Canada’s most popular artists. His love of the land and the people of the Yukon brought him international acclaim.

“His distinctive style of painting is both colourful and sophisticated, yet retains an innocent charm, and appeals to both young and old alike.

“We thank-you for your kind messages and your ongoing enthusiasm for Ted and his work throughout the years.”

Born in August 1926, Mr Harrison credits the work of Pitman Painter Norman Cornish, from Spennymoor, with inspiring his love of painting people and places.

He enjoyed art from a young age and was encouraged by his parents, especially his mother who was interested in photography and fashion design.

He attended Wellfield Grammar School and then West Hartlepool Art College, where his studies were interrupted by military service.

Mr Harrison returned to art school after the Second World War and received a diploma in design in 1950.

The following year he received a teaching certificate from the University of Durham and began a twenty-eight year career in education, which saw him teach in Middlesbrough, Wingate, Malaysia and Canada.

He met his late wife, Nicky, in Malaysia, and the couple had one son, Charles.

In 2006, Mr Harrison returned to the North-East to celebrate his 80th birthday with his twin sister, Algar, in Wheatley Hill.

Speaking to reporter Mike Amos at the time, he said: “I wasn’t really an artist until I got to The Yukon and I guess I introduced it to quite a lot of people.”

Mr Harrison’s other achievements include setting up the Wingate Arts Company, illustrating Robert Service’s poems and induction into the Royal Conservatory of the Arts.