HR Masterclass from Human Resources magazine: High-level HR strategy training workshops

led by the world's most respected HR thought leaders & strategists.

Review the 2018 programme here »

Despite being happy with their current employer, half of Malaysia’s employees are on a constant search for better job opportunities.

According to the 2014 Kelly Global Workforce Index (KGWI) report, 93% of the ’empowered workforce’ in Malaysia surveyed said that potential employer attractiveness is related to the salary and monetary benefits.

The ’empowered workforce’, as defined by Kelly’s vice president of APAC, Anthony Raja Devadoss, is an “active group of workforce that embodies contemporary thinking and trends spanning across gender, generations, regions and industries”.

“Apart from salary being the key motivator for job change, there is a dynamic shift to a more autonomous and empowered workforce,” he said. “They don’t just think about making career changes and they actively look for better job opportunities or evaluate the job market.

“Over 60 per cent of today’s workers globally spend at least one hour per week networking and establishing resources for new job opportunities.”

However, this is not an indication of dissatisfaction with their current job or employer. Globally, 47% of workers search for new jobs even when they are happy where they currently are. This is slightly higher in Malaysia, where 52% look out for better opportunities.

“A comprehensive understanding of empowered workforce and their expectations for employment is necessary attract and retain this top-notch class of modern talents, in order to address the talent supply chain issues,” said Devadoss.

He added companies in Malaysia need to “drastically improve” their human resource acquisition and retention strategies to engage these empowered employees because it doesn’t just come down to money.

ALSO READ:

Job hopping expected to increase again in 2015

Pay rises expected for China, Malaysia in 2015

In fact, 67% of employees said they would gladly give up career growth or higher pay for a greater work-life balance and more flexibility in work schedules, and 64% would give it up for opportunities to learn new skills.

Overall, staff are increasingly interested in non-traditional or flexible employment opportunities.

“While each industry and profession has its own parameters for what constitutes a flexible work opportunity, employing some flexible schedules at the workplace is a surefire way to attract, build loyalty and contentment among future and current employees,” he said.

In terms of expectations, this risky group of employees also values transparent communication, opportunities for growth and career advancement and a collaborative work environment.

Yet almost half of employees in Malaysia surveyed said their employers “do not take time to communicate their career development with them”, while 70% said “opportunities for advancement make the organisation an attractive employer”.

Lastly, 63% enjoy a highly collaborative work environment, compared to 19% who prefer individual work.

Image: Shutterstock