Karl Stefanovic slams authorities who let Sydney Siege gunman, Man Monis, out on bail. Courtesy: The TODAY Show/Channel Nine

KARL Stefanovic has slammed the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for allowing Sydney siege gunman Man Monis to walk free, despite being linked to the murder of his ex-wife.

In a blistering attack on television this morning, the Today host blasted the Crown prosecutors.

Crucial information on Man Monis was never presented to court in 2013 because staff were due to go on Christmas holidays, the Saturday Telegraph revealed last week.

“Are you not disgusted by that? I was,” Stefanovic said, reacting to reports in The Daily Telegraph.

The ODPP was also caught trying to hide that one of its lawyers failed to present crucial facts about Man Monis to a magistrate who freed the gunman on bail.

The lawyer acting for the ODPP had not tendered a police document containing a list of objections to Monis being bailed, including that he was a danger to witnesses, it was revealed at the Lindt Cafe siege inquest yesterday.

Man Monis went on to take hostages in the Lindt Cafe in Martin Place, which resulted in the deaths of cafe manager Tori Johnson and mother and lawyer Katrina Dawson.

Homicide Detective Senior Constable Melanie Staples said the lawyer, whose name has been suppressed, admitted to her during the lunch recess he believed he had done a “terrible job” on the failed bail application at Penrith Local Court in December, 2013, when Monis was charged with organising the murder of his wife.

“Senior Constable Melanie Staples fought and fought and fought for Monis not to be granted bail then she was unfairly accused of criticising her prosecutor because she didn’t want this guy on the streets,” Stefanovic said.

“Imagine her frustration. Imagine the frustration from arresting officers.

“Imagine knowing this guy was a danger and seeing him walk. Now the crown prosecutor has serious questions to answer.

“She fought as hard as humanly possible to keep this wacko behind bars and she wasn’t allowed to. Whose side are they working on?”

Lawyers for the families of Ms Dawson and Mr Johnson told State Coroner Michael Barnes the document should have been revealed earlier.

The damaging evidence involving the Crown Prosecutor emerged as Constable Staples was being “aggressively” questioned by counsel assisting the inquest, Jeremy Gormly SC, over her handling of Monis’ bail application.

Monis was charged in November 2013 for being an accessory before and after the fact to the murder of his ex-wife.

Emergency services found the body of Noleen Hayson Pal, 30, in a Werrington apartment block in April 2013.

The woman had allegedly been stabbed and set on fire.

Monis’ second wife, Amirah Droudis, was charged with her murder.

Constable Staples, the officer in charge of the investigation into the murder of Monis’ ex-wife, was accused of unfairly criticising the performance of the prosecutor to her Homicide Squad bosses after Monis was granted bail.

Mr Gormly put it to her there was nothing in the statement of facts she had prepared for the Crown Prosecutor to say police had concerns about Monis’ bail, including that he was a danger to victims or that he could flee to Malaysia.

“That was in a separate document,” Constable Staples said.

Counsel for the Office of the DPP, David Buchanan SC, stood and said legal privilege was claimed over that document as well as any mention of it in the officer’s statement.

It was the first anyone in the court had heard about the document, which was among those redacted under legal privilege in a controversial move by the DPP last week.

Counsel for Mr Johnson’s family, Gaby Bashir SC, said the existence of the “highly relevant” document would not have been revealed had Mr Gormly not asked that question in court. The Coroner found the document was not covered by privilege.

RELATED NEWS

MAN MONIS BAIL NOT CHALLENGED BECAUSE CHRISTMAS WAS LOOMING

HOW DID MAN MONIS GET HIS SAWN-OFF SHOTGUN?

It was then revealed it also contained the information the murder had been committed while Monis was on bail for charges of sending offensive letters to the families of dead servicemen and was an associate of the Rebels bikies.

It also said the detective ­believed he should have been dealt with under the section of the 1978 Bail Act that not only had a presumption against bail but called for exceptional circumstances to be shown for bail to be granted. The magistrate had been told none of those things, nor was the document tendered to the court.

The Crown Prosecutor is expected to appear today.