Members of a Police forensic teem gather evidence at the site of twin explosions near the main train station in Turkey's capital Ankara, on October 10, 2015. (AFP/Adem Altan)

The international community has condemned Saturday’s attack on a peace rally in Ankara that killed at least 86 people and injured 186.

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the attack through his official spokesperson. "[Ban] expects the perpetrators of these terrorist acts to be swiftly brought to justice," read a statement issued by his office.

The statement added: "He sends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, as well as to the people and the government of Turkey, and wishes those injured a speedy recovery.”

French President Francois Hollande and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev both telephoned President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to offer their condolences while Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced the blasts and offered his condolences to the families of the victims.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel strongly condemned the attack in a telegram of condolences to her Turkish counterpart, Ahmet Davutoglu.

“If the indications of terrorism are confirmed, this is a cowardly act directed against civil rights, democracy and peace,” Merkel said.

“This attack has targeted social cohesion. It is an attempt to intimidate, an attempt to spread fear,” she added.

“I am confident that the Turkish government and the whole Turkish society will stand together and give terror the answer of unity and democracy,” the German premier said.

British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said he was appalled by the “barbaric attacks” in a tweet. “My thoughts are with the loved ones of those killed and injured. UK stands with the Turkish people,” he added.

Thorbjorn Jagland, secretary general of the Council of Europe, said: “I condemn the barbaric attack on peaceful demonstrators in Ankara today. Freedom of assembly is a fundamental pillar of democracy."

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said: “I strongly condemn the terrorist attack in the center of Ankara that killed and injured dozens of people. There can be no justification for such a horrendous attack on people marching for peace.”

The United States condemned in the strongest terms Saturday the terrorist attack in Ankara, White House National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said in a statement.

"The fact that this attack occurred ahead of a planned rally for peace underscores the depravity of those behind it and serves as another reminder of the need to confront shared security challenges in the region," said Price offering condolences to Turkey and the families of the victims.

The US will stand side-by-side with the Turkish government as the two states take on the scourge of terrorism, he added.

In Pakistan, President Mamnoon Hussain’s office said in a statement: “We have learned with deep sadness about the bomb blasts near the train station in Ankara today. Pakistan condemns this heinous act of terrorism in the strongest possible terms."

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak also said that he was saddened by the tragedy, extending his thoughts and prayers to the family of the victims.

"Respect rights to peaceful assembly within the law," he tweeted. "No one should resort to violence just because you don't share the same views."

In addition, messages of condemnation for the bombings and solidarity with the Turkish people were issued by leaders and high-ranking representatives of Canada, Georgia, Serbia, Kuwait, and Greece, among other countries.