The Court of Appeal has put a Malaysian couple on death row for starving their Cambodian maid to death. ― File pic

PUTRAJAYA, Oct 30 ― The Court of Appeal today convicted a Malaysian couple with the murder of their Cambodian maid, who they starved to death in 2012.

In its unanimous decision, the Court of Appeal found that there were merits in the prosecution’s bid for the duo to be convicted under the original charge of murder, which carries a mandatory death sentence.

“We set aside the conviction and sentence imposed by the High Court and substitute with an order of conviction and sentence under Section 302 of the Penal Code,” Court of Appeal judge Datuk Seri Zakaria Sam said when reading out a three-man panel’s decision.

This means that Soh Chew Tong and his wife Chin Chui Ling, aged 46 and 43 respectively, will face the death sentence unless today’s decision is overturned.

Chin broke down and sobbed after the decision by the panel chaired by Court of Appeal judge Datuk Tengku Maimun Tuan Mat and also composing of Datuk Ahmadi Asnawi.

When met outside the courtroom, their lawyer Datuk K. Kumaraendran confirmed that his clients have instructed him to file an appeal with the Federal Court.

On May 16, 2013, the Penang High Court convicted the duo of the lesser charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304(a) of the Penal Code, sentencing them to 24 years’ imprisonment each for causing the death of 24-year-old Mey Sichan.

The crime was said to have occurred at the couple’s residence at a shoplot in Bukit Mertajam, Penang between January 1 and April 1, 2012.

The 148 cm-tall Mey was found dead at the shoplot on April 1, 2012 and weighing only 26.1kg.

At the Penang High Court, the judge reportedly noted that 29 old and new injuries were found on Mey’s body, including lacerations and bruises.

These injuries and the lack of fatty tissue or muscle layer at her body’s abdominal parts and chest led to the forensic pathologist’s conclusion that she had lacked food for several months, the High Court judge said.

Both the lack of food and injuries was said to have worsened her gastric ulcer which led to acute peritonitis and her subsequent death.