Shabir Ahmad Khan, 31, admitted before magistrate Siti Radziah Kamarudin to three charges of voluntarily causing hurt to the Imam; disturbing a religious assembly; and overstaying in Malaysia. — Bernama pic

KUALA LUMPUR, Oct 30 — An Indian national who slapped the Imam of Masjid Negara during Friday prayers last month was fined RM12,000 or three months’ jail by the Magistrate’s Court here today.

Shabir Ahmad Khan, 31, admitted before magistrate Siti Radziah Kamarudin to three charges of voluntarily causing hurt to the Imam; disturbing a religious assembly; and overstaying in Malaysia.

He committed the offences at Masjid Negara, Jalan Perdana here, at 1.30 pm on Sept 18.

Shabir, from Kashmir, who worked as a driver and possessed a social visit pass which had already expired, paid the fine.

He was first charged on Sept 30 and had pleaded guilty but his plea was rejected after appearing to be confused.

The court then ordered him to be sent to Hospital Bahagia Ulu Kinta in Tanjung Rambutan, Perak for mental assessment.

According to the facts of the case presented by deputy public prosecutor Nor Diana Nor Azwa Shabir, Shabir had shoved Imam Mohd Zuhairee Mohd Yatim, 39, who was leading the congregation on the first chapter of the Friday prayers.

When the victim stood up to continue reciting the prayers, Shabir slapped him on the left cheek violently.

The slap left the victim reeling and in pain, forcing him to stop the prayer session temporarily before continuing after Shabir was escorted out by security guards.

Earlier, counsel Sharen Rosli urged the court to impose the minimum fine as Shabir had been confirmed to suffer from bipolar mood disorder.

“A custodial sentence would only aggravate the accused’s depression and his aggressive behaviour might cause anxiety among other prisoners.

“Based on the report from Hospital Bahagia, the accused has been advised to receive followup treatment from a psychologist in his country, Kashmir.

“The accused is remorseful of his action and wants to receive treatment,” Sharen submitted. — Bernama