Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

KENINGAU: Two local men from here and Nabawan, were arrested by the police in December last year and early January, this year.

District police chief Deputy Superintendent Douglas Nyeging Taong said in Nabawan, a security guard aged 42, was arrested for attacking a man in a workers’ quarters at Mile 38 in Nabawan district.

He said the incident occurred on January 2 at about 1.30pm, where a 37-year-old complainant was attacked by the suspect with a machete.

“Before the incident, the complainant had gone to meet with the suspect who was in-charge of the company’s fuel, to refuel his vehicle after obtaining permission from the company’s general manager.”

He said the suspect did not comply with the request to refuel, and when asked, the suspect who was sitting at the door of his room got angry and grabbed a machete to threaten the complainant.

He said the complainant managed to escape while being pursued by the suspect holding the machete.

“The complainant did not know why the suspect had tried to attack him, and fearing for his safety, he and his friend made a police report at the Nabawan police station,” he said at a press conference at the district police headquarters here, yesterday.

Douglas said based on information received on January 2 at about 6.35 pm, a police team from the Criminal Investigation Department arrested the suspect at the Nabawan police station and was brought to the district police headquarters here for further action.

The police also seized a machete used by the suspect to intimidate the complainant, and the suspect had been remanded for seven days to facilitate investigations, he said.

In another case, Douglas said a 38-year-old mechanic from Kampung Mottou here was arrested for breaking a complainant’s rear and side vehicle mirrors using a samurai sword belonging to the suspect.

He said on December 31 at 11.43am, a report was received from the complainant aged 38 from Telupid town, who stated that the mirrors of his car was broken by a suspect who was also his brother-in-law, at the house of his sister-in-law at Kampung Mottou here,

“The incident was caused by a dissatisfaction because the complainant wanted to bring his sister-in-law to Kinabatangan to accompany his parent-in-law.

“Acting on information, members of a patrol car, and assisted by members of the Criminal Investigation Department, arrested a man and seized a 32-inch samurai sword, and brought him to the Keningau police headquarters for further investigation,” he said.

Douglas said the suspect had been remanded for eight days to facilitate investigations.

According to him, the two suspects were being investigated under Section 506 of the Penal Code for threatening.

He said the two suspects could be jailed for two years or with a fine or both upon conviction.

Also present at the press conference were Criminal Investigation Department head ASP Lee Nyuk Kim and investigating officer Inspector Siti Fatimah Az-Zahra Sulaiman.