Indonesian police on Saturday identified the five men they suspect of launching Thursday’s gun and bomb attack in Jakarta, which was claimed by the Islamic State, and said they had arrested 12 people linked to the plot who planned to strike other cities.

Meanwhile, in neighboring Malaysia, officials said they arrested a man in Kuala Lumpur who confessed to planning a suicide attack in that country.

“We . . . have carried out acts of force. We have done searches, we have made arrests and we have obtained evidence connected with the terrorist bombing at Sarinah,” Jakarta police spokesman Mohammad Iqbal said at a news conference.

“We will not say how many people or what sort of evidence we have, as it will upset our strategy. Be patient. When the case is closed and things are clear, we will disclose them.”

Seven people, including the militants, were killed in Thursday’s attack near the Sarinah department store in the Indonesian capital’s commercial district. About 30 people were hurt.

1 of 15 Full Screen Autoplay Close Skip Ad × The scene after suspected Islamic State affiliates stormed Indonesia’s capital View Photos Militants staged suicide bombings and opened fire in downtown Jakarta. Caption Militants staged suicide bombings and opened fire in downtown Jakarta. Jan. 14, 2016 People, including unarmed police officers, flee from the scene after a gun battle broke out following an explosion in Jakarta. Attackers set off bombs and exchanged gunfire outside a Starbucks cafe in Indonesia's capital in a brazen assault. AP Buy Photo Wait 1 second to continue.

Police held up pictures of the dead and wounded at the news conference, including a man who started the siege by blowing himself up in a Starbucks cafe.

Another attacker, who opened fire with a gun outside the cafe, was named as Afif. A spokesman for the country’s counterterrorism agency said Afif had served seven years in prison, where he refused to cooperate with a de-radicalization program.

The brazenness of the Jakarta assault, which had echoes of attacks such as those in Paris in November, suggested a new brand of militancy in a country where extremists typically launch low-level strikes on police.

Police spokesman Anton Charliyan said the five named suspects and the 12 others who were arrested had plans to attack cities elsewhere in Indonesia, including Bandung, about 75 miles southeast of the capital.

“There were general plans targeting certain places like police and government offices, foreigners or those cooperating with foreign entities,” Charliyan told reporters.

In Malaysia, the country’s police chief said a suspected militant who was arrested Friday in a metro station in Kuala Lumpur had confessed to planning a suicide attack.

The inspector general of police, Khalid Abu Bakar, said the 28-year-old Malaysian planned to carry out the attack in the country after receiving orders from a foreign member of Islamic State group in Syria.

Amateur video obtained by Reuters shows militants shooting at civilians and security forces during Thursday's attack in Jakarta, Indonesia. (Reuters)

“The suspect is also responsible for hanging IS flags at several locations . . . to warn the government to stop arresting IS members in Malaysia,” Khalid said in a statement.

No details were given about where and how he planned to attack.

Khalid said three other people suspected of being Islamic State supporters were arrested last week at Kuala Lumpur airport after they returned from Turkey.

Malaysia has been on high alert since Thursday’s siege in Jakarta. Security has been beefed up in public areas and borders have been tightened to prevent militant extremists from entering the country.