KUALA LUMPUR: The man who allegedly stole a mobile phone at Low Yat Plaza was fined RM2,000 by the magistrate’s court here today when he pleaded guilty to drug abuse.

Magistrate Muhamad Faizal Ismail also ordered Shahrul Anuar Abdul Aziz, 22, to serve a month’s jail if he failed to pay the fine and undergo two years’ of police supervision.

Shahrul Anuar paid the fine.

He was charged with taking methamphetamine at the toilet of the Narcotics Criminal Investigation Division office, Dang Wangi police headquarters here, at 4.15pm on July 12 last year.

The charge under Section 15(1)(a) of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, punishable under Section 15 of the same Act, carries a fine of not more than RM5,000 or not more than two years’ jail and not more than three years of police supervision.

During mitigation, the accused’s counsel Ihsan Busyro Zakaria asked for the court to just impose a fine on his client as he had to support his mute mother and deaf father.

Deputy public prosecutor S. Malini Anne appeared for the prosecution.

Earlier, in the trial of the mobile phone theft case, the court was told that police did not make further investigations on the whereabouts of the phone after Shahrul Anuar was arrested at the plaza.

Investigating officer Inspector Shahril Mohamad, from the Dang Wangi police headquarters, said he had asked where the mobile phone was to two policemen but they said it was not with the accused at that time.

Shahril is the ninth prosecution witness to testify in the trial of Shahrul Anuar, who was charged with stealing a mobile phone worth RM800 at Techasia Boutique, Low Yat Plaza, Bukit Bintang, at 4.47pm last July 11.

Shahrul Anuar was charged under Section 380 of the Penal Code which carries imprisonment of up to 10 years and a fine, if found guilty.

When cross-examined, Shahril said police did not ask on the whereabouts of the phone from the members of the public who were at the place of the incident.

The hearing before magistrate Nur’Aminahtul Mardiah Md Nor continues on Feb 29.

– BERNAMA



