KUALA LUMPUR: The parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PAC) should be one of the mechanisms to ensure that justice was done in the 1MDB scandal, pointed out suspended Gelang Patah MP Lim Kit Siang in a statement. “Instead, its Chairman Hasan Arifin has now become a ‘fugitive from justice’.”

“He scurried and scampered overseas to justify his unilateral and arbitrary postponement of the PAC meetings on Wednesday and Thursday.”

Lim, also DAP Parliamentary Leader, charged that in fact only two PAC members were overseas to perform the umrah , Ahmad Hamzah (Jasin) and Nawawi Ahmad (Langkawi). “Hasan scampering and scurrying overseas to make an infamous ‘trio’ of PAC members overseas was a most irresponsible and even cowardly act.”

Hasan was not speaking the truth when he implied that the majority of the PAC members were not parliamentary miscreants who had played truant to sabotage the Committee’s meetings, added Lim. “Hasan ‘sabotaged’ the PAC by unilaterally, arbitrarily and even dictatorially postponing its meetings to the first week of March.”

“The question was whether Hasan could be trusted that the two postponed PAC meetings would be held in the first week of March before Parliament reconvenes on Monday.”

Lim said that he had no confidence that Hasan could be trusted on this score. He referred to the fact that Hasan had not made any public announcement as to when the PAC would meet before Parliament reconvenes on March 7 for the Auditor-General to submit his final audit report on the 1MDB.

Lim wants Hasan to reveal where he had run to overseas and what was he doing abroad when the PAC was scheduled to meet for the important conclusive stage of its hearings on the 1MDB scandal. “If Hasan had been in the military, he would have been court-martialled. He would have been given the supreme penalty for absconding and abandoning his station and duties at the most crucial and critical hour.”

No PAC Chairman in Malaysia had committed a greater breach of parliamentary privilege than Hasan, lamented Lim. “He will go down in Malaysian parliamentary history as the most infamous PAC Chairman.”

“What a shame and dishonour.”

The DAP veteran reiterated that Hasan told a deliberate lie when he said that “most PAC members are overseas” when in fact the overwhelming majority of the members were in the country with more than a comfortable quorum. “Hasan himself scampered and scurried overseas on Tuesday to give some semblance to his ‘tall tale’ that ‘most PAC members are overseas’ to justify the last-minute cancellation of the Committee’s meetings on Wednesday and Thursday.”

“Even MCA and Gerakan MPs in the PAC had no advance notice.”

Lim went on to describe Hasan as indeed one of a kind when in Malaysia and all over the world, everyone wants the speediest end to the mystery of the 1MDB scandal. “It has brought such infamy to Malaysia’s international reputation.”

The PAC, stressed Lim, should be pressurising the Auditor-General for early submission of his final audit report. “Instead, we have a PAC Chairman who is doing the very opposite, refusing to honour the scheduled PAC meetings for the Auditor-General to submit his final audit report on 1MDB.”

“Hasan wants to cause further and indefinite procrastination.”



