[March 15, 2016] ICT Award Recipients Identified by Judges; Awards to be Presented at 2016 Frost & Sullivan Malaysia Excellence Awards Banquet

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, March 15, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- An independent panel of judges sat down recently to identify the deserving recipients of the 2016 Frost & Sullivan Malaysia Excellence Awards – ICT Category. The Malaysia Excellence Awards banquet will be held on April 14, at the Grand Hyatt Kuala Lumpur. Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160315/344214 Mr. Ajay Sunder, Vice President of Digital Transformation, Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific said that it is important to recognize Malaysian companies who are driving innovation and achieving best practices in the ICT industry. "The objective of this awards program is to help drive innovation, excellence and a positive change in the industry by recognizing best-in-class products, companies and individuals. We hope that this recognition will inspire them and others to work hard, push boundaries and achieve new heights," he said. Mr. Sunder also thanked the judges for allocating time out of their busy schedule to ensure that the award recipients are truly the best in the industry. "The independent panel of judges plays an important role in ensuring that the awards program remains robust and exciting," he said. The Malaysia Excellence Awards aims to recognize Malaysian companies for demonstrating outstanding achievement and superior performance in areas such as leadership, technological innovation, customer service and strategic product development. Industry analysts compare market participants and measure performance through in-depth interviews, analysis and extensive secondary research in order to identify best practices. The findings of the detailed evaluation are then presented to a panel of independent judges comprising of key industry leaders in Malaysia, to decide the recipient for each category. Below are the esteemed judges who decided on the 2016 Frost & Sullivan Malaysia ExcellenceAwards ICT categories:



Ajay Sunder , Vice President, Frost & Sullivan Tn. Hj Aisharuddin bin Nuruddin, Senior Director, Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission Dato Ng Wan Peng , COO, Multimedia Development Corporation Peter Chan , Director, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise S. Letchumanan A/L Shanmugam, Under Secretary, International Division, KKMM Vino Nair, Editor-in-Chief, Business Today There will be a total of seventeen awards presented at the awards ceremony. They are: M2M Service Provider of the Year

MVNO Service Provider of the Year

Mobile Data Service Provider of the Year

Mobile Service Provider of the Year

Fixed Broadband Service Provider of the Year

Telecom Service Provider of the Year

Network Firewall Vendor of the Year*

Managed Security Services Provider of the Year*

Web Security Vendor of the Year*

Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) Vendor of the Year*

Advanced Persistent Threat Solution Vendor of the Year*

Managed Service Provider of the Year*

Data Center Service Provider of the Year*

BPO Service Provider of the Year*

Most Promising IoT Enabler*

Innovative Smart City Solution Provider of the Year*

Telecom Wholesale Service Provider of the Year* The awards banquet is by invitation only. Please visit our awards website at http://www.malaysia-awards.com or connect with us via social media – Twitter, Facebook and Linkedin for the latest news and updates. We also invite you to join the conversation using #FrostAwards.

*These awards were pre-judged internally by Frost & Sullivan analysts and shared with the external panel of judges. About Frost & Sullivan Frost & Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market participants. For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global 1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Is your organization prepared for the next profound wave of industry convergence, disruptive technologies, increasing competitive intensity, Mega Trends, breakthrough best practices, changing customer dynamics and emerging economies? Contact Us: Start the discussion Media Contact Carrie Low

Corporate Communications – Asia Pacific

Phone: +603.6204.5910

Email: carrie.low@frost.com To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ict-award-recipients-identified-by-judges-awards-to-be-presented-at-2016-frost--sullivan-malaysia-excellence-awards-banquet-300236019.html SOURCE Frost & Sullivan

[ Back To TMCnet.com's Homepage ]