KUALA LUMPUR: Deputy Public Prosecutor Datuk Anthony Kevin Morais did not drown in concrete, despite being found in a concrete filled oil drum, a forensic expert told the High Court.

Nurliza Abdullah, 51, ruled out death by drowning, saying the autopsy found no water or foreign objects in the victim's lungs nor water in the stomach, which would be caused by swallowing water.

“There is a high probability that the cause of death was suffocation, where the deceased suffered from external factors blocking him from breathing,” she said, adding that the moderate level of decomposition made it difficult to identify the asphyxiation injury.

In a career spanning 20 years, Nurliza had handled 4,500 cases, from high profile murders of Altantuya Shaariibuu, Stephanie Foray and Datuk Sosilawati Lawiya; to disasters like the Rohingya mass graves in Perlis, the MH17 flight disaster and Highland Towers collapse.

Questioned by DPP Wan Shaharuddin Wan Ladin during the examination in chief whether Morais was strangled, Nurliza said it was unlikely as there was no signs of trauma or impact on his neck.

She said there were external injuries: contusions to the top lip, the right and left chest, above the ribs, the right shoulder, front left ankle, middle back, and left buttock.

She added contusions only occurred if a person was still alive, and in Morais' case, were in line with compression injury caused by having something pressing him over a long period.

When asked if it was fatal, Nurliza said the pressure could restrict breathing and cause the victim to pass out, but in this case was not the cause of death as it did not cause serious internal damage to the vitals.

When questioned if Morais was still alive when placed in the oil drum, Nurliza said there was a high probability he was already dead before being stuffed inside a plastic sack, and then placed in the drum.

Nurliza also based her findings on lack of signs that the deceased tried moving or struggling while in the drum.

“The body was also in an abnormal state, a foetal-like posture – the knees and hip joint were bent and his arms were tied behind his back with a neck tie,” Nurliza said, adding that the body was fully clothed except for a lack of shoes when it was found.

On Jan 27, the six men - G. Gunasekaran, 48; R. Dinishwaran, 24; A. K.Thinesh Kumar, 23; M. Vishwanath, 26; Nimalan, 23; and Ravi Chandaran, 35, claimed trial to charges of murdering Morais.

They are accused of committing the offence between 7am and 8pm on Sept 4, 2015, between Jalan Dutamas Raya Sentul and No. 1 Jalan USJ1/6D, Subang Jaya.

Army pathologist Colonel Dr R. Kunaseegaran, 53, pleaded not guilty to abetting the six in the murder.

They face the mandatory death penalty if convicted, under Section 302 of the Penal Code.

Counsel Datuk N. Sivananthan and Datuk Geethan Ram Vincent acted for Kunaseegaran, counsel V. Rajehgopal defended Gunasekaran, Vishwanath, Nimalan and Ravi Chandaran, while lawyer M. Manoharan acted for Dinishwaran and Thinesh Kumar.

The trial before Justice Azman Abdullah continues today.