KUALA LUMPUR: Souled Out has kick-started its 20th anniversary celebration with a contribution to a good cause.

The company is sponsoring The Star’s NiE (Newspaper-in-Education) pullouts worth RM50,000 that will benefit 30 schools in the Klang Valley.

The 12-page English language resource is aimed at providing students with a different method of learning English.

The mock cheque event, held at Souled Out Desa Sri Hartamas, Kuala Lumpur, marked the beginning of the five-month-long celebration in anticipation of its 20th anniversary, which will be held on Sept 3 and 4.

“We hope to give the less fortunate a chance for a good life. The Star has identified an area of growth and we think the NiE pullout is a very good initiative,” said Souled Out commander-in-chief Fred Choo.

He said this after handing the mock cheque over to Star Media Group Bhd (formerly known as Star Publications (M) Bhd) group managing director and chief executive officer Datuk Seri Wong Chun Wai.

Commending the NiE pullout, he said: “I think the pullout is very interesting. I have seen a few copies. The content will help broaden the minds of the younger generation.

“There is something new every week and it will encourage students to explore. We hope that NiE will broaden their knowledge base and enable them to think out of the box.

“It’s something that students can look forward to every Wednesday and hopefully recognise that there are people who care.”

Choo also said English was very important when it came to the food and beverage industry.

“Ninety per cent of our patrons are English speakers. Souled Out receives many foreign patrons so it is important that our staff is able to interact with them,” he said.

Choo said Souled Out provided English training for its floor staff for better communication.

At the start of the day, Choo makes sure that one staff member takes on the day’s briefing session with the colleagues.

This rotation opportunity, said Choo, gave his staff exposure to public speaking and a better understanding of the job.

“They pick up very fast and being able to interact in English gives them more confidence. It is an achievement and these skills are something they will always have,” said Choo.

The NiE pullout, which comes with a copy of the newspaper every Wednesday, features syllabus-based topics for students in elementary, intermediate and advanced levels.

The 33 issues slated for the year provide creative ideas and ready-made activities to make language-learning exciting.

For details on the Star-NiE school sponsorship programme, call The Star’s Customer Care Unit at 1 300 88 7827 from Monday to Friday (9am–5pm).