"So if you ask: 'Habibie, what is your comment on capital punishment?' The answer is that I reject it." Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were executed in 2015. Credit:Anta Kesuma Another round of executions will take place after the Islamic fasting month of Ramadan in June according to the Attorney-General's office. The announcement followed weeks of febrile speculation that the end was imminent for up to 15 drug offenders on death row, as firing squads prepared on Indonesia's death island, Nusakambangan. Last year President Joko Widodo moved swiftly to execute 14 drug offenders – including Australians Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan – citing a drug emergency.

The death penalty is widely supported in Indonesia, with media polls typically showing about 75 per cent approval. Febyanti Herewila, wife of Andrew Chan, at the funeral for her husband in Sydney last year. Credit:Brendan Esposito Mr Joko last week authorised judges to sentence child sex offenders to death following a national outcry over the gang rape of a 14-year-old girl in Sumatra. But the anti death-penalty campaign is gaining momentum. Law and Human Rights Minister Yasonna Laoly and popular Jakarta governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, known better as Ahok, both oppose capital punishment. Java-Christian Church prepared 10 coffins for prisoners sentenced to death and awaiting execution in Indonesia last year. Credit:Aris Andrianto

Former Indonesian judge Professor Jimly Asshiddiqie told the book launch he regretted he had been unable to convince a fellow judge to abolish the death penalty in a landmark Constitutional Court of Indonesia case in 2007. The case brought by Sukumaran, Chan and others claimed the death penalty was inconsistent with the guarantee of the right to life in the constitution. The funeral for Myuran Sukumaran in Sydney last year. Credit:James Brickwood Professor Asshiddiqie, who was chairman of the constitutional court at the time, said unfortunately the case came at a time when there was huge public anger about drugs in Indonesia. He voted with the majority – six votes to three – to uphold the death penalty.

However he confessed to the book launch that he actually agreed with the dissenting judges who believed the death penalty was unconstitutional. "Actually I will share with you the secret ... I was with them," he said. Professor Asshiddiqie said the constitutional court, established in 2003 as part of reforms following the Suharto regime, was a new institution at the time. "I didn't always agree with the court's ruling but I also rarely made dissenting opinions," he said. "Because those who make dissenting opinions are the ones who will make it into newspaper headlines."