A+ A-

Student group Challenger is shocked at the manner Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng was arrested. He was charged this morning.

Last we checked, in March, while repeating his innocence, Lim Guan Eng gave an assurance he will cooperate.

Despite this, the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) decided to arrest him in a heavy-handed manner, with dozens of marked police patrol cars.

This is not something unusual. Opposition leaders, activists and even Umno members who are fierce critics of Najib Abdul Razak have faced the same fate.

In 2008, Anwar Ibrahim was arrested by 10 personnel in patrol cars, and 20 armed balaclava-clad officers.

In March 2015, Khalid Samad was arrested in the middle of his sleep at 3am for investigations under the Sedition Act.

In September 2015, Khairuddin Abu Hassan was arrested and detained for a full 28 days under the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (Sosma).

In October 2015, his lawyer Matthias Chang was similarly arrested and detained under Sosma.

Albeit the previous times being the jurisdiction of the Royal Malaysian Police (PDRM), the MACC should be aware that alleged suspects who cooperate should not be handled with such heavy-handed tactics.

The million dollar question remains. When will Najib be arrested?

Despite disbanding of taskforces, terminations and transfers of key players in the midst of investigations, coupled with the laughable and self-admitted RM2.6 billion donation, he was cleared.

In January this year, it was reported that the MACC recommended that Najib be charged under the Penal Code, only to be ignored by the attorney-general (AG).

MACC officers were transferred mysteriously, the AG’s services were prematurely terminated, the taskforce investigating 1MDB was dissolved, a deputy prime minister was sacked and four ministers were dismissed.

Without prejudicing the merits of the case currently in court, we would like to highlight the clear double standards.

How can one who is being investigated in at least six foreign jurisdictions be left roaming around without a strand of hair touched in Malaysia?

When will Najib Abdul Razak be arrested?

ADRIAN LIM CHEE EN is a Challenger activist.