OVERNIGHT in Donetsk, Ukraine, heavy artillery rains down from the sky.

Twenty minutes away, in the industrial city of Makiivka, the windows vibrate from tanks and machine guns hard at work.

The “roar of heavy equipment”, according to one local journalist, travels far and wide from the town, which became the focal point of worldwide scrutiny two years ago when Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 was shot down in rebel-held territory in eastern Ukraine. All 298 passengers and crew perished, including 39 Australian citizens and residents.

Despite pressure from global leaders to end Russia’s military intervention, the war has continued between the two.

Pro-Russian rebels have been fighting Ukraine government troops for more than two years, but there’s a bigger pawn at play.

#Makiivka listens to war sounds, can even be heard through closed windows sometimes. #Ukraine — Mikhail D. (@Eire_QC) August 14, 2016

That pawn is Crimea, the peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea that both Russia and Ukraine claim as their own. Fighting there continues, despite the international community attempting to quash rising tensions. There are fears the violence could kill off a stalled peace process for eastern Ukraine, signed in the Belarus capital Minsk in February 2015.

Ukraine has accused Russia of plotting further unrest as the international community sought to ease tensions after the two sides ramped up security around the disputed peninsula.

Moscow said it has delivered its most advanced S-400 air defence system to Crimea, which it annexed in 2014.

The system will become fully operational in December, the military says.

Russia’s Federal Security Service said it thwarted “terrorist attacks” in Crimea by Ukrainian military intelligence and beat back armed assaults. Kiev has fiercely denied these claims.

Both sides boosted security around the region as the simmering feud over Crimea unexpectedly flared up again, prompting fears of a wider conflict.

Ukrainian troops near Crimea and along the frontline with pro-Russian separatists in two other eastern regions have been placed on high alert, and Kiev’s military intelligence said “the enemy is planning large-scale provocative actions”.

It also accused Russia of increasing its forces, replenishing munitions and building up military hardware in the war-scarred east of Ukraine.

Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev followed up angry accusations from President Vladimir Putin by branding Kiev’s alleged raids in Crimea “a crime against the Russian state and the people of Russia”.

The political rhetorical was stepped up a notch at the weekend.

Kiev’s alleged attempts at armed incursions into Crimea saw a Russian security service officer killed in clashes while arresting “terrorists” at the weekend, Moscow said.

Meanwhile, a Russian soldier died in a firefight with “sabotage-terrorist” groups sent by the Ukrainian military on Monday.

Ukraine’s national security council chief Oleksandr Turchynov dismissed the claims, saying Moscow was trying to cover up deadly shootouts between Russian forces “who traditionally abuse alcohol”.

In a move likely to fuel the dispute, Russian state TV aired footage of the interrogations of several alleged infiltrators, who authorities say have confessed to working for Ukraine’s military intelligence.

Kiev had previously said one of the men being held in Russia had been abducted and was a “hostage”.

At a meeting of the UN Security Council last week, Ukraine asked Russia to provide evidence to back its accusations, which Ukraine President Petro Poroshenko had called “senseless and cynical”.

Putin has said a mooted meeting with Poroshenko and mediators German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande at next month’s G20 summit in China would now be “senseless”.

A German government official told AFP that Putin’s rejection of such a meeting was a “sign that Russia is less and less counting on a political solution to the crisis”.