By Charles Hector

On October 10, 2016, the 14th World Day Against the Death Penalty, Malaysians Against Death Penalty and Torture (Madpet) calls on Malaysia to expedite the abolition of the Death Penalty, and to impose a moratorium on all executions against the Death Penalty.

Malaysia on track towards abolition

In a news report, Nancy Shukri, the then minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, did say she hoped to take her proposal to amend the Penal Code and abolish the mandatory death sentence to the Dewan Rakyat as early as March 2016.

A few days before that, in another news report, Attorney-General Apandi Ali said he would propose to the Cabinet that the mandatory death penalty be scrapped, so that judges are given the option to choose between sentencing a person to jail or the gallows.

Malaysia was accorded a space of importance at the recent 6th World Congress Against the Death Penalty, organised in Oslo (Norway) from June 21-23, 2016, where the de facto Minister of Law, Nancy Shukri, was expected make a positive announcement about Malaysia’s intention to abolish the death Penalty. Sadly, the Minister could only confirm that Malaysia was still moving in that direction, but she could not be more specific about exactly when these proposed amendments would be tabled in Parliament.

Nancy told the World Congress that a government-backed study on the death penalty had been completed and a paper was being readied by the Attorney-General’s Chambers. The study was conducted by the International Centre For Law and Legal Studies (I-CeLLS). The consultant was then Professor Dr Roger Hood, Professor of Criminology and Emeritus Fellow of All Souls College Oxford.

The Minister also told news portal Malaysiakini at the sidelines of the Sixth World Congress that the study had been completed about two months ago.

Death penalty is no deterrent

Nancy Shukri previously also said that empirical studies showed that the death penalty had not led to “the deterring effect that such a penalty was created for.”

This was consistent with the facts the then Home Minister, Hishammuddin Hussein revealed to the Malaysian Parliament in March 2012, which showed that police statistics for the arrests of drug dealers under Section 39B of the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952, which carries the mandatory death penalty, for the past three years (2009 to 2011) have shown an increase. In 2009, there were 2,955 arrested under this section. In 2010, 3,700 people were arrested, whilst in 2011, there were 3,845 arrested.

Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation vice-chairperson Lee Lam Thye also did note in July 2013 that the death sentence had not deterred the drug trade.

Cases like that of Malaysian Umi Azlim Mohamad Lazim, 24, a graduate from a poor Malay family of rice farmers, and young Malaysian Yong Vui Kong who were once facing death for drug trafficking overseas, who since then had their sentences commuted, have opened the eyes of most Malaysians of the fact that many of the persons facing the death penalty for drug trafficking are really ‘mules’, many of whom are young people who have been tricked, or those who are financially disadvantaged. They are certainly not the kingpins of drug trafficking, and certainly do not deserve to be hanged.

Mandatory death penalty

Currently in Malaysia, the death penalty is mandatory for about 12 offences, while about 20 other offences are punishable by a discretionary death penalty. Murder and Drug Trafficking carry the mandatory death penalty.

Likewise, the Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act 1971 provides for the mandatory death penalty if firearms are discharged with intent to cause death or hurt to any person, shall, notwithstanding that no hurt is caused for offences like extortion, robbery, kidnaping, house breaking or house trespass, and such mandatory death penalty would also increase the risk the death of victims and/or potential witnesses. It is all the more important for the mandatory death penalty to be abolished where no hurt/death results.

The mandatory death penalty must be totally abolished, and considering Malaysia is on the verge of abolishing the death penalty, especially the mandatory death penalty, it was most disturbing that Malaysia in 2016 executed four persons, who were convicted for murder which carried the mandatory death penalty. Gunasegar Pitchaymuthu, Ramesh Jayakumar and Sasivarnam Jayakumar were executed on March 25, whilst Ahmad Najib Aris was executed less than three weeks ago on Sept 23.

Immediate moratorium on all executions needed now

We recall that Edmund Bon Tai Soon, Malaysia’s current AICHR (Asean Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights) representative, was reported saying: “…Malaysia’s moratorium, I understand, is only for drug trafficking cases…” It must be noted that Human Rights Commission of Malaysia (Suhakam), also did reiterate on March 29 their recommendation that a moratorium on the use of the death penalty be put in place in Malaysia.

Madpet believes that there must be a moratorium on executions of everyone, not just those convicted for drug trafficking.

Why the delay in the tabling of these amendments?

Madpet notes that Malaysia informed us that the study was completed in early April or May this year, and all that was needed was for the Attorney-General’s Chambers to draft and thereafter submit the proposed amendments to be tabled by the Government in Parliament, which we hope will happen soon in the upcoming Parliamentary session this October.

Therefore…

Madpet urges Azalina Othman, who replaced Nancy Shukri in mid-July as the new de facto Minister of Law, to expedite the tabling of the much needed amendments that will abolish the death penalty.

Madpet also urges that Malaysia announce a moratorium on ALL executions, not just for drug trafficking, pending the tabling of amendments, that would see the abolition of the mandatory death penalty, and hopefully also the abolition of the death penalty. As of May 16, there are 1,041 persons on death row.

Madpet also urges Malaysia to vote in favour of the upcoming United Nations General Assembly Resolution calling for a moratorium on executions pending abolition of the death penalty, or at the very least record a vote of abstention.

Madpet reiterates its call for Malaysia to abolish the death penalty, and hopes that by the next World Day Against the Death Penalty, Malaysia will proudly stand amongst countries that have abolished the death penalty.

Charles Hector is spokesman for Malaysians Against Death Penalty and Torture (Madpet).

With a firm belief in freedom of expression and without prejudice, FMT tries its best to share reliable content from third parties. Such articles are strictly the writer’s personal opinion. FMT does not necessarily endorse the views or opinions given by any third party content provider.



