Press Releases MyStartBiz Sdn Bhd Press Release Share Blog

Receive press releases from MyStartBiz Sdn Bhd: By Email PDF Version RSS Feeds: Miss Tourism Swaziland Beauty Pageant Received Warmly in Subang, Malaysia. A Proposal to Appoint Her Brand Ambassador of Renown La Nor Cosmetics, Malaysia.





The CEO of renown La Nor Cosmetics Malaysia, Mrs. Noor Zawatil lsyqi and the organizers of the Miss Tourism International event were also present at the moment.



Miss Tourism Swaziland together with the other participants of the Miss Tourism International event arrived today from Langkawi Island of Malaysia after spending 2 days of planned visit in world's famous tourist city of Langkawi also known as 'Jewel of Malaysia'.



Miss Tourism Swaziland thanked the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso for such a warm family gestured welcome in Malaysia. "She will always remember the sweet hospitality of Malaysians," the beauty pageant said while exchanging the greetings with Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso. Miss Tourism Swaziland was presented with the Christmas gifts by the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso. The CEO of La Nor Cosmetics, Malaysia Mrs. Noor Zawatil Isyqi also presented her the gift.



"We'll be working on a proposal to appoint Miss Tourism Swaziland as La Nor Cosmetics 'brand ambassador'," the CEO of La Nor Cosmetics, Malaysia said while talking to the media. "We are the manufacturer of exclusive cosmetics products and focusing on a specific customer range specially the 'Royal Families' and our plan to appoint 'Brand Ambassador' from Swaziland is based on our love, respect and gratitude for Swazi Royal family" the Mrs. Isyqi said.



Swaziland is the most peaceful country in Southern Africa bordered with South Africa and ruled by His Majesty King Mswati III who is also the chairperson of the Southern African Development Community (SADC).



HRH Princess Sikhanyiso Dlamini, the Principal Princess and member of Royal Advisory Board, officially launched the Miss Swaziland Tourism pageant and Nadia Nascimento was crowned Miss Tourism Swaziland in October 2015, confirming her place to represent Swaziland in 'Miss Tourism World' contest, being held in Malaysia in till 1st of January, 2017.



Recently in August, 2016 His Majesty King Mswati III visited Malaysia and expressed his keen interest to adopt Malaysia's Blue Ocean Strategy and also stressed to boost tourism between two friendly nations. Mbabane, Swaziland, December 25, 2016 --( PR.com )-- Nadia Nascimento, the Miss Tourism Swaziland was received warmly at Skypark Airport by Mr. Muhammad Qadeer, the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso and the Director of MyStartBiz Sdn Bhd.The CEO of renown La Nor Cosmetics Malaysia, Mrs. Noor Zawatil lsyqi and the organizers of the Miss Tourism International event were also present at the moment.Miss Tourism Swaziland together with the other participants of the Miss Tourism International event arrived today from Langkawi Island of Malaysia after spending 2 days of planned visit in world's famous tourist city of Langkawi also known as 'Jewel of Malaysia'.Miss Tourism Swaziland thanked the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso for such a warm family gestured welcome in Malaysia. "She will always remember the sweet hospitality of Malaysians," the beauty pageant said while exchanging the greetings with Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso. Miss Tourism Swaziland was presented with the Christmas gifts by the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso. The CEO of La Nor Cosmetics, Malaysia Mrs. Noor Zawatil Isyqi also presented her the gift."We'll be working on a proposal to appoint Miss Tourism Swaziland as La Nor Cosmetics 'brand ambassador'," the CEO of La Nor Cosmetics, Malaysia said while talking to the media. "We are the manufacturer of exclusive cosmetics products and focusing on a specific customer range specially the 'Royal Families' and our plan to appoint 'Brand Ambassador' from Swaziland is based on our love, respect and gratitude for Swazi Royal family" the Mrs. Isyqi said.Swaziland is the most peaceful country in Southern Africa bordered with South Africa and ruled by His Majesty King Mswati III who is also the chairperson of the Southern African Development Community (SADC).HRH Princess Sikhanyiso Dlamini, the Principal Princess and member of Royal Advisory Board, officially launched the Miss Swaziland Tourism pageant and Nadia Nascimento was crowned Miss Tourism Swaziland in October 2015, confirming her place to represent Swaziland in 'Miss Tourism World' contest, being held in Malaysia in till 1st of January, 2017.Recently in August, 2016 His Majesty King Mswati III visited Malaysia and expressed his keen interest to adopt Malaysia's Blue Ocean Strategy and also stressed to boost tourism between two friendly nations. Contact Information Nurul Binti Ilyas

0060342801178



Liaison Officer

Office of the Special Envoy of HRH Princess Sikhanyiso Dlamini

Attached Files Press Release Filename: PRESSRELEASE11.pdf

Click here to view the list of recent Press Releases from MyStartBiz Sdn Bhd