PUTRAJAYA: All North Korean citizens, coming to Malaysia, will have to apply for visa starting next Monday, said Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Zahid Hamidi.

He said the decision was made after taking into consideration public security following the recent murder of North Korean citizen Kim Jong-Nam at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 (KLIA2).

He said the government would not hesitate to take firm action in ensuring the safety of the public.

"I would like to announce that beginning Monday, all citizens of North Korea who are planning to come to Malaysia will have to apply for a visa.

"The visa will be implemented to all North Korean nationals coming into our country," he said in a press conference after attending the Home Ministry's monthly assembly at the ministry here.

Malaysia and North Korea had maintained a relatively low-key diplomatic relationship since the 70s, with both nations enjoying a free visa travel policy. However, several diplomatic incidents following the murder of Jong-Nam had placed the bilateral relationship between both countries in a state of uncertainty.

Jong-Nam, who was travelling with a passport bearing the identity of Kim Chol, died in Malaysia after allegedly being assaulted in a poison attack by two women at KLIA2.

Ahmad Zahid, who is also Home Minister, issued a stern warning to the North Korean government not to use Malaysia as a platform to initiate their personal agenda.

He added that Malaysia is not a country that can simply be toyed with, just like how the North Korean government had previously shown to other nations.

"It is unfair for them (North Korea) to accuse Malaysia, diplomatically or via communication, of conspiring with other organisations or nations (over the murder).

"We are not trying to create enemies, but if they want to use Malaysia as a platform to initiate their agenda, our country's image should not be damaged at the international level," he added.

He also reminded North Korean diplomats, those who are residing in Malaysia or abroad, not to undermine the country's image following the murder.