This article is over 1 year old

Politicians from around the world have sent messages of support after Monday night’s bombing at Ariana Grande concert • Manchester attack – latest updates • What we know so far

European and world leaders have expressed their shock, sympathy and condemnation after the suicide bombing at a pop concert in Manchester killed at least 22 people.

Speaking in Bethlehem where he was meeting Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas, Donald Trump said he would not call the perpetrators monsters because they “would think that’s a great name”.

Expressing his “deepest condolences” and “absolute solidarity” with the UK, the US president condemned the “murder of so many young, beautiful, innocent people” and said the “wicked ideology” of the “evil losers” responsible must be “completely obliterated”.

The Chinese president, Xi Jinping, sent a message to the Queen expressing his sincere condolences to those killed and injured, China’s CCTV state broadcaster reported. “The Chinese people are firmly standing together with the British people at this difficult time,” Xi said.

The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, said he was willing to boost anti-terrorism cooperation with the UK after a “cynical, inhuman crime”, adding that he expected “those behind it will not escape the punishment they deserve”.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, expressed her “great sadness and shock”, adding that the attack on Monday night would “only strengthen our resolve to work with our British friends against those who plan and execute such inhuman acts. I assure the people in Britain: Germany stands by your side.”

Steffen Seibert (@RegSprecher) Chancellor #Merkel on the attack in #Manchester: pic.twitter.com/WYEFp319dZ

In France, newly elected president Emmanuel Macron voiced his “horror” and “distress”, saying France sent its “compassion and solicitude” to the British people and that he would speak to Theresa May on Tuesday.

Together with his prime minister, Édouard Philippe, the president walked to the British embassy, close to the Elysee palace, to sign a book of condolences, French channel BFMTV reported.

BFMTV (@BFMTV) #Manchester Macron, Philippe, Le Drian et De Sarnez se rendent à pied à l'ambassade du Royaume-Uni pic.twitter.com/Qer6Ui3hH9

Philippe condemned “an abominable crime” and “the most cowardly terrorism” that – as at the Bataclan concert hall in Paris in November 2015 – had “specifically and clearly” targeted young people going out.

The mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, tweeted: “Tonight Paris stands with Manchester” and confirmed the Eiffel Tower’s lights would be turned off at midnight on Tuesday in homage to victims.

EU leaders expressed their horror and vowed to fight terrorism together. Jean-Claude Juncker ordered the flags outside the Berlaymont, home to the European commission, to fly at half-mast in solidarity.

European Commission (@EU_Commission) Flags at half-mast-Today we mourn with you.Tomorrow we'll work side by side 2 fight back.They underestimate ours&your resilience #Manchester pic.twitter.com/M5FvtIbcob

Juncker sent his “deepest sympathies” to the British people, adding: “It breaks my heart that, once again, terrorism has sought to instil fear where there should be joy, to sow division where young people and families should be coming together in celebration.”

Donald Tusk, the president of the European council, said: “My heart is in Manchester this night. Our thoughts are with the victims.”

Federica Mogherini, the bloc’s foreign affairs and security chief, tweeted:



Federica Mogherini (@FedericaMog) Fear won't prevail. European youth will continue to enjoy their love for life, freedom & joy, together. #Manchester pic.twitter.com/ybNHmQPvl2

In Spain, prime minister Mariano Rajoy condemned the attack, sending his “condolences to the families of the deceased and fervent wishes that the wounded recover soon”. His foreign ministry condemned “forcefully and unequivocally … these vile acts”.

From a balloon pop to a suicide bomb: witnesses in Manchester recount a night of horror Read more

The Dutch premier, Mark Rutte, said: “Terrible news from Manchester where a great evening ended in tragedy. Our thoughts are with the victims.”

The Italian prime minister, Paolo Gentiloni, tweeted: “Our thoughts go out to the victims”; his Danish counterpart Lars Løkke Rasmussen spoke of a “horrendous loss of innocent lives”.

Greece’s Alexis Tsipras said his people were “on your side”. The Austrian chancellor, Christian Kern, called the attack “horrible and shocking”; Austria’s president, Alexander Van der Bellen, tweeted: “Horrific news from Manchester”. Portugal’s premier, António Costa, tweeted in English:

António Costa (@antoniocostapm) Our deepest sympathies and solidarity to the British people, the victims and families of the #Manchester attack.

Overnight, the Australian parliament observed a minute’s silence in memory of the victims. The prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull, said the attack was “especially vile, especially criminal, especially horrific because it appears to have been deliberately directed at teenagers”.

He added: “This is an attack on innocence. Surely there is no crime more reprehensible than the murder of children. This is a direct and brutal attack on young people everywhere, on freedom everywhere.”

Canada’s prime minister, Justin Trudeau, tweeted:

Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) Canadians are shocked by the news of the horrific attack in Manchester tonight. Please keep the victims & their families in your thoughts.

Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, sent “condolences to the families of those murdered and wishes of a speedy recovery to the wounded”, adding: “Terrorism is a global threat and it is incumbent on the enlightened countries to defeat it everywhere.”

Manchester is suffering now – but its spirit will overcome this atrocity | Owen Jones Read more

Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, tweeted:

Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) Pained by the attack in Manchester. We strongly condemn it. Our thoughts are with the families of the deceased & prayers with the injured.

Japan’s prime minister, Shinzō Abe, said Japan stood side by side with the British. In a message to May, Abe said he was deeply shocked that “this appalling act of terrorism” had targeted young people while they were attending a concert.



He added: “On behalf of the government of Japan and the Japanese people, I would like to express my heartfelt condolences to the victims and extend our sympathies to those who have been injured.”