Indonesian President Joko Widodo phoned President Rodrigo Duterte to reaffirm Indonesia's commitment to the Philippines as extremists continue to pound a southern Philippines city, a Palace official said Thursday.

Widodo called Duterte around 7:30 p.m., Wednesday to reaffirm Indonesia's commitment help the Philippines in countering terrorism and restoring peace and stability in the southern Philippines, presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella said in a press conference.

Both Duterte and Widodo affirmed the need to step up and address threats posted by terrorism and violent extremism in the region, Abella added.

Debris and fire is seen after an OV-10 Bronco aircraft released a bomb, during an airstrike, as government forces continue their assault against insurgents from the Maute group, who have taken over parts of Marawi City. Romeo Ranoco, Reuters

The Filipino and Indonesian leaders also noted the importance of the trilateral meeting with Malaysia that will happen in Manila on June 22, Abella said.

The Indonesian foreign ministry on Tuesday said foreign ministers and security officials of Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines will meet in Manila to discuss the ongoing conflict in the southern Philippines and its impact on the region.

The spokesman declined to give further details about the "productive and fruitful call".

Duterte told reporters in Cagayan de Oro City on Tuesday that he would ask “many questions” to Widodo during their phone call as apparently, many foreign fighters allegedly on the ground with local terror groups in Marawi City were from Indonesia.

The emergence of groups pledging allegiance to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) seems to have become the biggest security problem to face the year-old Duterte administration.

The rise of pro-ISIS groups in the country has raised alarm in Washington and the Philippines’ neighbors in the region, which fear that the notorious terror group was seeking to establish a new front in Asia amid its successive losses in Iraq and Syria.

The government said at least 276 suspected terrorists have been killed since the clashes erupted almost a month ago.

The government has lost 67 of its men, while civilian casualties remain at 26.

The military, meanwhile, said some 500 civilians, including potential hostages, remain trapped in the battle zone.