A+ A-

KINI ROUNDUP | Here are the key headlines you may have missed yesterday, in brief.

More barbs over floods

As floods in Penang recedes, supporters of political parties took aim at leaders of opposing parties by making fun of their efforts to promote themselves online.

Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng urged critics to make fun of him and not flood victims.

MCA religious harmony bureau chief Ti Lian Ker reminded Lim Kit Siang of his 1998 statement which admonished the Penang government about floods and challenged him to similarly reprimand Guan Eng.

MCA Youth chief Chong Sin Woon refuted a DAP leader's allegations that he had "stolen" volunteers who were involved in clean-up operations at a school.

DAP said the party initiated the donation drive for the state government's flood relief fund and therefore used the party's bank account for collections.

Pulau Betong lawmaker Muhammad Farid Saad told the Penang legislative assembly that the floods in the state were an act of God and therefore Guan Eng should not blame others.

Taman Free School surau bilal Sapno Tukijo who provided refuge for some 70 flood victims has been struggling to obtain permanent residency despite being in the country since 1988.

The recent flood and landslide in Penang was evidence of a "failed state", said Umno information chief Annuar Musa.

Probe on Ambiga raises eyebrows

Election reforms pressure group Bersih raised concerns over the police's investigation on Ambiga Sreenevasan in relations to PAS president Abdul Hadi Awang's suit against Sarawak Report editor Clare Rewcastle-Brown.

The Malaysian Bar said the police had no legal basis to investigate Ambiga based on Rewcastle-Brown's defence statement which the UK courts have yet to establish as true.

Ambiga claimed that she is the victim of harassment and intimidation due to a concerted effort by those linked to the claimant in the civit suit.

Anwar Ibrahim's lawyers questioned why senior lawyer Muhammad Shafee Abdullah took such a long time to respond to allegations that he was paid RM9.5 million by Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak.

Former Perak menteri besar Mohammad Nizar Jamaluddin was awarded RM200,000 by the Sessions Court for his defamation suit against Perak PAS leader Razman Zakaria.

Other Kinibites

Penang BN expressed dismay at the number of new "vice" centres that are popping up in Penang.

Pakatan Harapan chairperson Dr Mahathir Mohamad listed out his entitlements as a former prime minister that has been withdrawn by Putrajaya.

Former diplomat Yeop Adlan Che Rose was officially welcomed as a DAP member.

Looking ahead

Gerakan will begin its two-day national congress.



