AN Australian man arrested in Bali for allegedly attempting to smuggle drugs into the country - a charge that carries the death penalty - has been rushed to hospital "in shock".

The man, identified as 35-year-old chartered accountant Isaac Emmanuel Roberts, was caught when he landed at Bali's international airport from Bangkok with 19.97g of crystal methamphetamine in his luggage.

Lawyer Deni Sedana later told News Corp Australia his client had "fallen ill" and that "he often suffered from depression and was a suicide risk".

Australian man Isaac Emmanuel Roberts was arrested at Ngurah Rai International Airport Bali after he arrived on a Thai Airways flight from Bangkok.

The arrest occurred earlier this month, on December 4, but details were kept secret until today when officials announced the bust in a media conference.

Footage from the conference shows Mr Roberts wearing a black balaclava over his head and bright orange prisoner shorts and shirt.

He and two other suspects sat on chairs behind officials, flanked by two officers also wearing balaclavas and carrying rifles.

Centre for Indonesian Law, Islam and Society (CILIS) deputy director Helen Pausacker told news.com.au that the theatrics surrounding the arrests were "very common in Indonesia for many offences - not just drug offences".

"It happens to both Indonesians and foreigners," Dr Pausacker said.

"It may be done as a deterrent effect for possible future offenders - it is in part to shame the people involved, and also ostensibly to gain accurate facts about the crime scene and events that occurred.

"The media is sometimes invited but not always."

The 35-year-old was paraded in media conference today in Bali, wearing a black balaclava over his head and bright orange prisoner shorts and shirt. Picture: Lukman Bintaro

The two other foreigners paraded in front of media are reported to be from Malaysia and the US, according to the Sydney Morning Herald, and their arrests are believed to be unrelated.

Bali Customs Officials allege that the drugs were discovered upon a second search of Mr Roberts' luggage in a customs examination room, after he appeared suspicious on his arrival to Bali on a Thai Airways flight.

Officials allege that he had 6.22 grams of ecstasy, 14.32 grams of methamphetamine and 22ml of Alprazolam, more commonly known Xanax, in his luggage when arrested.

He faces charges of drug importation which carry the maximum death penalty for importing more than five grams of methamphetamine, under Article 113 of Indonesia's drugs laws.

A customs official also said Mr Roberts' crime was punishable by maximum death penalty, life sentence, or minimum five years and maximum 20 years in jail, according to the Daily Telegraph.

He faces charges of drug importation which carry the death penalty. Picture: Lukman Bintaro

As he was escorted out of the conference, Roberts told the media he had been invited to "this country" by someone who was working with a customs officer.

"They knew I was going to bring something," he said, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.

"I'm just a f ... g addict. They want to waste resources on addicts, they want to punish addicts this is ridiculous. What about the f…..g importers? I wasn't going to sell it to anyone here, no one was going to use it here. This is ridiculous. This is an embarrassment."

Dr Pausacker told news.com.au that drug addicts "can, on occasions be sent for rehabilitation, in lieu of a prison sentence" under Indonesian law.

"Offering to buy, sell or be an intermediary in the purchase, sale or trade of more than 5 grams of Group 1 Narcotics (including amphetamines) can incur 5-20 years in prison or the death penalty," Dr Pausacker said.

"Importing, exporting or distributing narcotics also contains similar penalties.

"Possessing or using would not incur the death penalty."

She was "unsure at this point in time" if Roberts was likely to be sentenced to the death penalty if found guilty.

"The prosecutors will need to make the sentencing demand first," Dr Pausacker said.

More to come.

He and two other suspects sat on chairs behind officials at the conference, guarded by two officers also wearing balaclavas and carrying rifles. Picture: Lukman Bintaro

Officials allege that he had 6.22 grams of ecstasy, 14.32 grams of methamphetamine and 22mil of a psychotropic substance in his luggage when arrested. Picture: Lukman Bintaro