BESIDES Art Stage, there are more than 100 events taking place during the Singapore Art Week. Here's a selection of its key highlights. For a full list of the events at Singapore Art Week, go to artweek.sg

PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE EYE

Jan 17 - June 28

Marina Bay Sands

sentifi.com Market voices on:

Seventeen of Singapore's best contemporary artists will showcase their works at this MBS exhibition, which coincides with the publication of Singapore Eye, a picture book covering the practices of 62 top local artists. The exhibition is expected to be a significant one, with artists such as Jane Lee, Donna Ong and Jeremy Sharma.

APB FOUNDATION SIGNATURE ART PRIZE

Now on till March 15

Singapore Art Museum

Some of finest artists in Asia have been selected for APB Foundation Signature Art Prize, including Singapore's Ho Tzu Nyen and Indonesia's Melati Suryodarmo. The accompanying exhibition at SAM showcases their compelling works. Meanwhile, Melati herself will be performing her gruelling piece, a 12-hour durational performance titled I'm A Ghost in My Own House, on Jan 21 at SAM from 9am to 9pm.

ARTWALK LITTLE INDIA

Jan 17 - 21, 2015

Little India

How well do you know Little India? What if there were artworks scattered in the district that will help you see the location with new eyes? Sign up for this tour, featuring artworks by Lasalle College of the Arts students. For more info, go to lasalle.edu.sg. After that tour, go down to the Lasalle campus for its 30th anniversary exhibition, which features works by some of its outstanding alumni.

ALIWAL URBAN ART FESTIVAL

Jan 17 , 2015

Aliwal Arts Centre

Not quite into the chichi side of art? Grunge it up this weekend at the Aliwal Arts Centre with street artists, dancers, bands and DJs the whole night long.

ART AFTER DARK @ GILLMAN

BARRACKS

Jan 23, evening

Gillman Barracks

Where there's good art, there's a party. Premier art cluster Gillman Barracks will host this evening outdoor party with plenty of drinks and music.

Also, don't miss the fantastic exhibitions there, including Yang Fudong at Centre of Contemporary Art, Gilbert & George at Arndt, and Jimmy Ong at Fost. All the galleries will open till late. On other days, Yeo's Workshop will be holding a series of talks on art collecting and appreciation. Go to arnoldiiartsclub.com for details.

THE 24-HOUR ART PRACTICE

Jan 24, 4pm

Singapore Art Museum

Singaporean film-maker Patricia Chen presents a double-bill of documentaries on Asian art patronage. The first film is Uli Sigg: China's Art Missionary. Sigg is one of the biggest and most important collectors of Chinese art.

The second film The 24-Hour Art Practice is about Dr Oei Hong Djien, often dubbed the "godfather of Indonesian art" for his ardent support of Indonesian artists over the course of three decades. This event marks the premiere of the latter film.