Nestled on the white sandy beach of Bali’s southern coast, The Westin Resort Nusa Dua, Bali is set to provide travelers a rejuvenating haven with all you need to be at your best.



(TRAVPR.COM) INDONESIA - January 29th, 2015 - Nusa Dua, Bali, January 2015… Heavenly Spa by Westin™ is delighted to announce that it has formed a powerful partnership with Aromatherapy Associates. This exclusive skincare brand is a leader in today’s beauty industry with a range of products that combine blended essential oils with active botanicals.

Essential oils have been used for thousands of years for their exquisite aromas and natural healing powers. By harnessing these therapeutic properties, aromatherapy works to improve physical, mental and emotional wellbeing. Aromatherapy Associates use only the purest natural ingredients for its beautifully scented line of bath, body and skin care products. The company supports fair trade and traditional agricultural practices with the belief that organically grown plants have more benefits and fewer side effects for the skin and body. New to Indonesia, Aromatherapy Associates is now available exclusively at Heavenly Spa by Westin™ which is a renowned spa in Nusa Dua To celebrate its debut, spa enthusiasts can take pleasure in 150 minutes of personal renewal with our Forever Young package. This nurturing journey includes an exfoliating sea salt body scrub, slimming massage, detoxifying seaweed masque and facial. Inspired by the wellness merits of Aromatherapy Associates, the package can be experienced for the special introductory price of just IDR 2,500,000 Net. Forfurtherinformation, high resolution images and Bahasa Indonesia release, please contact: Dewi Anggraini Director of Marketing Communications The Westin Resort Nusa Dua, Bali Bali International Convention Centre Phone: +62 361 771906 Fax: +62 361 772049

THE WESTIN RESORT NUSA DUA, BALI

Kawasan Pariwisata Nusa Dua

BTDC Lot N-3, Nusa Dua 80363, Bali, Indonesia.

T 62.361.771.906 F 62.361.771.908

westin.com/bali

AboutTheWestinResortNusaDua,Bali

The Westin Resort Nusa Dua, Bali enjoys a prime beachfront location within an exclusive enclave on the island’s southern shores. With 433 modern rooms, it is a place where guests

can be at their best and experience total renewal. Exciting dining venues anticipate global tastes with delicious cuisines and healthy SuperFoodsRx options. There is a choice of swimming pools, Westin Heavenly Spa for relaxation, WestinWORKOUT® to stay in shape and little ones get to play at the newly refurbished Westin Kids Club. The adjacent Bali

International Convention Centre provides comprehensive meeting resources with space for up to 10,000 delegates. The resort caters to the needs of leisure and business travellers alike with exceptional services and facilities to match.

AboutWestinHotels& Resorts

Westin Hotels & Resorts offers innovative programs that transform every aspect of a stay into a revitalizing experience. All Westin signature services – like the Heavenly Bed, delicious SuperFoodsRx® and WestinWORKOUT studio – have been designed with the

guests’ well-being in mind. Westin hotels, with more than 190 hotels and resorts in nearly 40 countries and territories, is owned by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., one of the

leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,146 properties in nearly 100 countries and 171,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels, resorts and residences with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis®, The Luxury Collection®, W®,

Westin®, Le Méridien®, Sheraton®, Four Points® by Sheraton, Aloft®, and

Element®. The Company boasts one of the industry’s leading loyalty programs, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), allowing members to earn and redeem points for room stays, room upgrades and flights, with no blackout dates. Starwood also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., a premier provider of world-class vacation experiences through villa-style

AboutStarwoodHotels& ResortsWorldwide,Inc.

Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with nearly 1,200 properties in 100 countries, and 181,400 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels, resorts and residences with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis®, The Luxury Collection®, W®, Westin®, Le Méridien®, Sheraton®, Four Points® by Sheraton, Aloft®, and Element®. The Company boasts one of the industry’s leading loyalty programs, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), allowing members to earn and redeem points for room stays, room upgrades and flights, with no blackout dates. Starwood also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., a premier provider of world-class vacation experiences through villa-style resorts and privileged access to Starwood brands.

###