She then asks him if he would like to play tennis with her. Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran. Credit:Anta Kesuma Chan and Sukumaran are hugely popular with their fellow inmates, a testament to their extraordinary efforts to train, counsel and financially support hundreds of Indonesian prisoners at Kerobokan. Sukumaran holds art, graphic design and computer classes, among others. Chan leads religious services and organises culinary courses. Both men have counselled prisoners to get off drugs and raised money to help with parole appeals and medical procedures for inmates and their families.

The emergence of the video has caused consternation for the prison governor, Susjonggo, who said it had been filmed by other inmates who were now facing punishment. Sukumaran (left) and Chan behind bars. Credit:Antara Foto "The perpetrators will be given sanctions," Susjonggo told Antara News. The video was filmed several weeks ago, as Mrs Chan and her ailing husband Ken returned home in mid-February. Members of the Sukumaran family also returned to Australia on Saturday, but plan to return to Bali in the near future. The broadcast of the footage on Indonesian channel TV One came as Indonesia's elite paramilitary police held a training drill to simulate the transfer the two Bali nine death row inmates, revealing plans to use a team of 10 heavily armed officers for each prisoner.

During the exercise, the heavily armed and masked police performed a mock transfer of two stand-ins onto and off a vehicle and then a bus, which stood in stead of a plane. "We've anticipated everything. They will not be able to escape," said Commissioner Rudy Harianto, head of Bali Police Mobile Brigade, known as Brimob. But no date has been set for the execution or the transfer of Chan and the other Australian facing the firing squad, Myuran Sukumaran. However, preparations are well advanced, with Bali's chief prosecutor Momock Bambang Samiarso saying that he was waiting on a decision from Jakarta to press ahead with the transfer, likely to be done by a military aircraft. Mr Momock said it could "maybe" happen on Sunday night but no earlier. Previous timeframes offered by Mr Momock to the media have not been met.

Prison authorities at Nusakambangan, the island where the men face execution, said the isolation cells would be ready by this weekend, although they are still finalising where the Australians and eight other drug felons will be killed. Earlier this week, a spokesman for the Attorney General, Tony Spontana, revealed to Fairfax Media that the intention was to kill all 10 simultaneously, an exercise that would require a combined firing squad of 120 police, 12 for each execution victim. The escalation of preparations comes as Indonesia's president Joko Widodo is refusing to confirm whether - as Prime Minister Tony Abbott suggested on Thursday - he was "carefully considering" his position on the executions. When reporters confronted him on Wednesday evening after he had spoken to Mr Abbott, Mr Joko confirmed that he had spoken to the Brazilian and French leaders about the imminent executions of their citizens. But asked about whether he had spoken to Mr Abbott, Mr Joko enigmatically refused to answer and shrugged his shoulders.