A POWER struggle has emerged between the Indonesian military and police over who controls the transfer of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran from Bali to Nusakambangan.

The delay in shifting the two Australian death-row prisoners to their final destination in Java has been explained by authorities as a lack of preparation on the prison island, but News Corp Australia understands the issue runs deeper.

The Indonesian paramilitary police unit, Brimob, had always intended to control the transfer operation from the prison using its men, vehicles and plane.

But last week, the head of the Indonesian military, or TNI, General Moeldoko, entered the picture saying he would deploy his military units, transport planes and fighter jets to oversee the move.

DEAF EARS: Tony Abbott’s phone call for mercy ignored

MORE: Why the Bali Nine duo are still in limbo

DEATH TANKS: On standby for Bali Nine duo

A unit of eight TNI Panser armoured personnel carriers based in Denpasar was ordered be on standby to take the Australians from the prison and drive them to the airport, where they would be put on a CN295, a small Indonesian military transport plane.

From there, Indonesian air force Sukhoi fighter jets would escort the CN-295 to Cilacap airport, close to the prison island.

But on Friday, Brimob staged an exercise in Denpasar using its Barracuda armoured personnel carriers and is understood to be seeking to deploy a different plane to transfer the prisoners.

The dispute over the transfer of the prisoners is about national pride and money.

The poorly funded police and the military both want to draw down on national funds to conduct the operation and, after the tensions with Australia, both want to be seen standing up for Indonesia in what will be an international media event.

The Indonesian police were suppressed for decades until the end of the Suharto era in the late 90s. The TNI virtually controlled all internal security matters under the powerful generals.

After the fall of Suharto, the police began to reclaim their place but tensions have never been resolved between it and the military.

In November, soldiers in the Riau Islands laid siege to a Brimob compound, firing on it for six hours and destroying buildings and vehicles in what was described at the time as a national crisis.

The battle reportedly related to an earlier clash when Brimob raided a compound in which TNI were suspected of hoarding fuel for smugglers. Four soldiers were wounded in the raid.

In 2013, 90 soldiers raided a police station in south Sumatra and stabbed six officers after a TNI officer had, according to the Jakarta Globe, been shot dead by a police officer after an argument escalated over a traffic violation.

In other places of high tension, including Papua and Sulawesi, police and military have cooperated closely in recent times controlling independence and terror insurgencies.

It is understood that the TNI, which has had soldiers on standby, being paid overtime, and has shifted equipment including planes into place for the move, doesn’t want to find itself taken off the mission.

The CN-295 has been fully prepared for the transfer, down to seating arrangements for Chan and Sukumaran, but there is persistent word that Brimob is resisting use of the TNI plane.

Several meetings have been held between military and police leaders to come to agreement. A likely compromise would be that both participate.