(FILES) In this file photograph taken on February 14, 2006, Australian's Andrew Chan (R) and Myuran Sukumaran (2nd-L), the ringleaders of the "Bali Nine" drug ring, are escorted by police after their verdict from a court in Denpasar, on Bali island. Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said on February 25, 2015 she was "very disappointed" at the failure of the latest bid to spare two Australians on death row in Indonesia, as Jakarta signalled that execution preparations were almost complete. AFP PHOTO / FILES / BAY ISMOYO

(FILES) In this file photograph taken on February 14, 2006, Australian's Andrew Chan (R) and Myuran Sukumaran (2nd-L), the ringleaders of the "Bali Nine" drug ring, are escorted by police after their verdict from a court in Denpasar, on Bali island. Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said on February 25, 2015 she was "very disappointed" at the failure of the latest bid to spare two Australians on death row in Indonesia, as Jakarta signalled that execution preparations were almost complete. AFP PHOTO / FILES / BAY ISMOYO BAY ISMOYO

INDONESIA doesn't have the right to execute Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran says former Page MP Janelle Saffin.

Ms Saffin, who was one of three prominent Northern Rivers people to speak out against the planned deaths yesterday, said she had been actively campaigning against the execution of the two "Bali nine" members.

Chan and Sukumaran have just days to live after they were moved from Kerobokan prison to Nusa Kambangan Island yesterday morning.

>>OPINION: OUR ATTITUDE TO DEATH PENALTY IS CHANGING

Indonesian attorney general HM Prasetyo must give the men at least 72 hours notice before they are executed.

A solicitor and human rights advocate, Ms Saffin said she was still working hard to get the death penalty abolished everywhere.

"I abhor the death penalty and am part of an anti-death penalty network working to have it abolished everywhere," she said. "No elected or appointed official has the right to take life, it is sacrosanct."

Ms Saffin said she was disappointed that terrorists involved in the Bali bombings were out of jail, and with the role the Australian Federal Police played in the Bali 9 members' arrest by Indonesian police.

Photos View Photo Gallery

"It seems incongruous to have some who served sentences for terrorism crimes out of jail and these men and others charged with drug offences sentenced to be state executed," she said.

"I am disturbed at intervention of the AFP in these cases, that any action of any Australian authority could put any Australian in harm's way of being subject to a state sanctioned death penalty.

"I was aware of this and took the matter up advocating most strongly for standard operating procedures for the AFP, with the then attorney general Robert McClelland, who changed the rules to try and prevent this."

Ms Saffin said she had also written protest letters to Amnesty International about the executions.

WHERE ARE THE REST OF THE BALI 9?

Matthew Norman, 28. Serving life in Kerobokan prison.

Renae Lawrence, 37. Serving 20-years in Bangli prison, Bali.

Martin Stephens, 39. Serving life in Malang prison, East Java.

Si Yi Chen, 29. Serving life in Kerobokan prison.

Tan Duc Than Nguyen, 31. Serving life in Malang prison, East Java.

Matthew Czugaj, 29. Serving life in Kerobokan prison.

Scott Rush, 29. Serving life in Karangasem prison, Bali.

Southern Cross University cultural studies lecturer, Dr Rob Garbutt, said the situation was a tragedy for Chan, Sukumaran and their families.

"The death penalty is never justified, it legitimises violence," he said.

"It's just another murder really, not justice itself."

Reformed heroin addict and doctor of philosophy at SCU, Jim Hearn, said it was crazy to take away Chan and Sukumaran's future for a silly mistake they made when they were young.

"I don't believe in the death penalty and I think it's really sad that there is very little Australia can do once an Australian citizen commits a crime in a different sovereign country," he said.

"I believe Indonesia has every right to do what it's doing, but it's wrong."

In a Northern Star online poll, which finished on February 20, 29% of readers said Australia should try to stop the executions as the death penalty was wrong, and 24% of respondents said the men were reformed.

Thirty-three per cent of people said Australia shouldn't interfere.