Why the merry dance of a prolonged death march, complete with smiling selfies by those guarding the men on the plane to Death Island? Credit:Kompas TV This is a cultural difference that goes some way to explaining why the executions of Bali nine ringleaders Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan have been treated so differently in the Indonesian and Australian media. The Australian media has focused on the extraordinary rehabilitation of the two men. Their metamorphosis from naive, selfish young men into the painter and pastor who transformed a once notorious jail has been well documented. To the frustration of Chan and Sukumaran's lawyers and supporters, the Indonesian media has largely ignored the almost biblical narrative of their reformation. Instead it has concentrated on the "drug emergency" in Indonesia and the need for capital punishment as a deterrent to narcotics smuggling.

President Joko Widodo is often quoted saying 40 to 50 Indonesians die a day due to drugs, although it has been pointed out by some commentators that these figures are dubious. Asked in an interview with the television network al-Jazeera how he could justify taking another's life, Mr Joko talked about 4.5 million Indonesians whose lives are "in ruin" because of drugs. "Don't just look at the people who sell drugs, look at their victims," he said. This is a refrain echoed by ordinary Indonesians, who constantly point to the deaths by overdose, the young lives lost to addiction and the anguish of their parents. Cilacap undertaker Suhendro Putro has first-hand experience of executions. He provides the coffins and has the grisly task of washing the bodies after they are shot. Mr Suhendro described to Fairfax Media waiting in the prison compound on Nusakambangan island with families of the condemned prisoners, who screamed when they heard the shots that killed their loved ones ring into the night. Despite witnessing this horror, he still believes in capital punishment for narcotics offenders because he says drugs destroy the lives of many.