KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia - A court in Malaysia on Tuesday sentenced to death a fisherman who was convicted of murdering two British students in 2014, a prosecutor said.

Zulkipli Abdullah, 23, was found to have stabbed to death Aidan Brunger and Neil Gareth Dalton in Sarawak state last August, said Prosecutor Muhamad Iskandar Ahmad.

The two British students, both aged 22, were on a medical placement at Newcastle University in Borneo of Malaysia, where the death penalty is mandatory for murder.

Abdullah was said to have been on police bail for armed robbery when the British students were attacked.

The students from Ambergate in Derbyshire were killed in an unprovoked attack three days before they were due to complete their six-week placement at a hospital in Kuching.

Five Malaysian men were arrested but only Zulkipli was charged. His lawyer said he would appeal.

Abdullah had admitted to have been involved in a fight with the students along with his two friends. He even confessed he punched one of them but denied stabbing them to death with a knife.

But the court rejected his defense.

"The court ruled that his defence was merely an afterthought. The defence failed to raise any reasonable doubts in the case," Iskandar said.

The prosecutor told the court that Abdullah after killing the British student sniffed the blood on his hands and told his friends that "the blood of white men smells nice".

He said that the folded knife used in the murder was found at Zulkipli's house. The weapon matched the stab wounds on the Britons, he added.

In a joint statement released after the verdict, the slain students' parents said they had been left shattered by the senseless murder of their sons, which meant the pair would "never have the chance to spend their lives caring for and helping others".

"Neil and Aidan were having a wonderful time in Borneo, working in Sarawak hospital and also travelling around, seeing as much of the beautiful country as they could. Both boys said how very welcoming and friendly the people were.

"Our sons would soon have qualified as doctors. Their unprovoked and senseless murders as they were walking home after a night out with other medical students means that Aidan and Neil will never have the chance to spend their lives caring for and helping others."