Bangkok: Malaysian authorities say they have foiled a plot by Islamic extremists to detonate a series of bombs across the capital Kuala Lumpur, ahead of a summit of South-East Asian leaders. Police have arrested 12 suspects allegedly linked to the so-called Islamic State in Syria and Iraq and seized bomb making materials. Leaders of the 10-member Association of South-East Asian Nations gather in Kuala Lumpur on Monday before moving for further talks on the resort island of Langkawi on Tuesday. Malaysia wants the leaders to agree on greater co-operation to fight extremism following reports that dozens of Muslims from their countries are fighting in the Middle East. Police said they have seized 20 kilograms of ammonium nitrate, a similar amount of potassium nitrate, kerosene, remote control devices and other bomb making materials. But police have not made public any details of the suspects who can be detained indefinitely under draconian anti-terrorism laws passed last month. Government critics, opposition parties and human rights groups have condemned the laws and accused the government of hyping the threat of terrorism to justify them. Malaysia is hosting the ASEAN talks amid a bitter leadership struggle within the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) that pits prime minister Najib Razak against former long-serving prime minister Mahathir Mohamad, who has repeatedly called for Mr Najib to step down following a series of alleged scandals. Musa Hitam, the country's former deputy prime minister, warned on Sunday of an "implosion" within the party and an "eerie sense of loss of direction in the country, which can be felt across the board." Dr Mahathir has attacked Mr Najib over loss-making state investment fund 1Malaysia Development Berhad, the alleged lavish lifestyle of his family and unanswered questions over the murder of a Mongolian socialite linked to an allegedly corrupt defence contract. Mr Najib and his government deny any wrongdoing. A key focus of the ASEAN talks will be growing tensions over territorial disputes in the strategically important resource rich South China Sea where China has been rebuilding disputed islands. Follow FairfaxForeign on Twitter

https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/103e1dff-0675-4e0e-8cc9-8fe04ff3861e.jpg/r2_0_728_410_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg