The UN says that 25,000 people have fled Myanmar and Bangladesh in the first three months of this year alone, in what officials now describe as the largest movement of refugees across the region since the Vietnam War. Bangladeshi migrant Jahangir Hussain looks out of a police van in Langkawi on Monday. Credit:AFP In the just-released report the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) says hundreds of refugees are alleged to have died in smuggling camps in Thailand in an escalating crisis that has prompted talks among regional governments and a crackdown on traffickers in Thailand, where powerful politicians and local officials have been arrested and 50 police are under investigation. Thailand's police chief Somyot Pumpunmuang has proposed setting up official camps to shelter Rohingya refugees where they could receive help from international agencies like the UNHCR. Similar camps were established for Vietnamese boat people in Malaysia and Indonesia following the fall of South Vietnam 40 years ago.

Thailand has also called for a summit of regional nations to discuss the crisis. Malaysian maritime police inspect one of the boats which carried Rohingya and Bangladeshi migrants in Langkawi. Credit:AFP The UN report follows the discovery of mass graves in smugglers' camps in Thailand and the arrival in Indonesia and Malaysia of more than 2000 refugees on Sunday and Monday, apparently after traffickers had abandoned them on virtual floating prisons to fend for themselves. Indonesia's navy on Tuesday towed a boat carrying 400 refugees out of Indonesian waters. The boat had washed ashore early on Monday in the Indonesian province of Aceh. A migrant helps cut his friend's hair at a sports stadium that was turned into a temporary shelter in Lhoksukon, Aceh province, Indonesia on Tuesday. Credit:AP

"We gave them fuel and asked them to proceed. We are not forcing them to go to Malaysia or Australia," navy spokesman Manahan Simorangkir said. "That is not our business. Our business is they don't enter Indonesia because Indonesia is not the destination." Officials and refugee activists fear that Thailand's crackdown is forcing traffickers to keep thousands of refugees at sea or to drive them deeper into jungle hideouts to avoid detection. Migrants brush their teeth and clean up at the temporary shelter in Lhoksukon. Credit:AP The International Organisation for Migration, a multi-government organisation which supports refugees, says it is extremely concerned for those still on boats who require urgent vaccinations for diseases such as beriberi. "Search and rescue will be problematic but it must be done – there are up to 100,000 fishing boats in these waters. That's a lot of needles in a very big haystack," an IOM spokesman said.

A Rohingya child peeps out of a door at the temporary detention centre in Langkawi. Credit:AFP The UN report says survivors are increasingly lured into life-threatening compromises by smugglers, including false promises of work or claims of initially free passage on the condition that they repay the debt when they find work. But the report says the refugees then become captives of the traffickers who hold them for ransom at sea. A Rohingya boy waits with other migrants at the temporary detention centre in Langkawi on Tuesday. Credit:AFP "The UN agency has noted cases of children being abducted off the streets or while fishing and forced onto boats while, for the most part, people remain unaware that money will be extorted from them later in the journey," it says.

According to the report, one survivor compared his 62 days at sea to a graveyard and said he lost hope of reaching shore alive. Rohingya women at the temporary detention centre in Langkawi. Nearly 2000 people were rescued off the Indonesian and Malaysian coasts. Credit:AFP The report says that in 2014, 53,000 people departed from Bangladesh and Myanmar bound for Thailand and Malaysia. More than a million Rohingya Muslims live in western Myanmar, where they have faced state-sponsored persecution and attacks by Buddhist mobs over the past three years. The exodus from Myanmar has included woman and children who are initially asked to pay between $US50 and $US300 for passage on a fishing boat, many of which come from Thai ports.