Graves found in Malaysia refugee traffickers’ camps

Malaysian Anti-Smuggling Unit officers check on vehicles at the entry point of Malaysia - Thailand border in Wang Kelian, Malaysia on Sunday, May 24, 2015. Malaysian authorities said Sunday that they have discovered graves in more than a dozen abandoned camps used by human traffickers on the border with Thailand, where Rohingya Muslims fleeing Myanmar have been held. (AP Photo/Joshua Paul) less Malaysian Anti-Smuggling Unit officers check on vehicles at the entry point of Malaysia - Thailand border in Wang Kelian, Malaysia on Sunday, May 24, 2015. Malaysian authorities said Sunday that they have ... more Photo: Joshua Paul, Associated Press Photo: Joshua Paul, Associated Press Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Graves found in Malaysia refugee traffickers’ camps 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Malaysian authorities said Sunday they have discovered graves in at least 17 abandoned camps used by human traffickers on the Thailand border where Rohingya Muslims fleeing Burma have been held.

The finding follows a similar discovery earlier this month by police in Thailand who unearthed dozens of bodies from graves in abandoned camps on the Thai side of the border. The grim discoveries are shedding new light on the hidden network of jungle camps run by traffickers, who have for years held countless desperate people captive while extorting ransoms from their families.

Most of those who have fallen victim to the trafficking networks are refugees and impoverished migrants from Burma and Bangladesh, part of a wave of people who have fled their homelands to reach countries like Malaysia, where they hope to find work or live free from persecution.

As Southeast Asian governments have launched crackdowns amid intensified international pressure and media scrutiny, traffickers have abandoned camps on land and even boats at sea to avoid arrest.

Malaysian Home Minister Zahid Hamidi told reporters that police were trying to identify and verify “mass graves that were found” in the region.

“These graves are believed to be a part of human trafficking activities involving migrants,” he said, adding that police have discovered 17 abandoned camps that they suspect were used by traffickers.

Zahid said each grave probably contained one to four bodies, but that authorities were in the process of counting.

Local media reported the graves were found in two locations in the northern state of Perlis. The state borders southern Thailand’s Songkhla province, where at least 33 bodies were found earlier this month.

Human-rights groups and activists say the area on the Thai-Malaysia border has been used for years to smuggle migrants and refugees, including Rohingya Muslims, a persecuted minority in Burma, also known as Myanmar.

In many cases, they pay smugglers thousands of dollars for passage, but are instead held for weeks or months, while traffickers extort more money from families back home. Rights groups say some have been beaten to death, and the Associated Press has documented cases in which people have been enslaved on fishing boats.

Since May 10 alone, more than 3,600 people — about half of them from Bangladesh and half Rohingya from Burma — have landed ashore in Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. Thousands more are believed to be trapped at sea in boats abandoned by their captains.

Malaysia and Indonesia announced last week that they would provide temporary shelter for migrants recently found or still stranded at sea. The U.S. has said it will settle some permanently.