Ellie angered mountain gods with her bare breasts, apparently (Picture: Rex/ShutterStock)

Eleanor Hawkins, the Brit tourist who angered Malaysian mountain gods with her nudity, has pleaded guilty to a public nuisance offence.

The 23-year-old admitted her offence during an appearance at Kota Kinabalu Magistrates’ Court.

Eleanor, who was among a group of backpackers, was blamed for triggering an earthquake by posing naked on the sacred peak of Mount Kinabalu.

She could face a possible three-month prison sentence or a fine.

Eleanor Hawkins, 23, attends court (Picture: Sky News)

Eleanor Hawkins stripped naked on Mount Kinabalu in Malaysia (Picture: Sky News)

A magnitude-5.9 earthquake struck the 13,400ft-high mountain last Friday, killing 18 people and leaving hundreds more stranded.

Sabah state deputy chief minister Joseph Pairin Kitingan blamed the earthquake six days later on travellers showing ‘disrespect to the sacred mountain’.

The group of 10 tourists stripped naked before taking photos at the peak of Kinabalu on May 30.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Miss Hawkins’s lawyer Ronny Cham said: ‘She may be charged today or have her bail extended. I don’t know.’

Eleanor Hawkins pleads guilty (Picture: Facebook)

Locals believe their nudity angered the sacred mountain gods (Picture: Rex/Shutterstock)

Yesterday her father said his daughter was sorry for any offence caused by her actions.

He said: ‘She knows what she did was stupid and disrespectful and is very sorry for the offence that she has caused the Malaysian people.’

He added: ‘We hope that the Malaysian authorities deal with the misdemeanour and not link it to the unfortunate tragic events that occurred the following week.’

Miss Hawkins, who recently graduated with a masters in aeronautical engineering from Southampton University, was in the middle of a gap year travelling around south-east

Asia which began in January.

Police obtained a court order to detain her and three other westerners for four days while they are investigated for indecent behaviour, Sabah state police chief Jalaluddin Abdul Rahman said.

MORE: Naked western tourists who ’caused earthquake’ are banned from leaving Malaysia

MORE: 5 times Brits abroad shamed us with their holiday antics