Mr Shorten told reporters on Tuesday: "I am informed that Labor did not pay people smugglers to turn around boats." Bill Shorten: Labor is holding pension reform hostage to super reform. Credit:Andrew Meares But he refused to comment on whether Labor had made other payments to people smugglers when in office. It would be inappropriate to comment on operations involving foreign spy agency the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS), Mr Shorten said. Despite Mr Shorten's vow to continue to pursue the issue, the opposition did not ask the government a single question about payments to people smugglers in question time in the House of Representatives on Tuesday.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop warned Mr Shorten he was "being set up" and told the Labor leader "I would be very careful to rule in anything or rule out anything under Labor's watch." "Don't rely on the advice of your frontbench on ruling in or ruling out security and intelligence matters under Labor's watch," Ms Bishop said. "I think you're being set up. And the ducking and weaving just shows the double standards, the hypocrisy and the confected outrage under this disgraceful opposition." On Monday former Labor immigration minister Tony Burke issued a stinging attack to the government saying Australian taxpayers had the "right to know" if their money was going to the "most vile trade." "You don't pay people to keep them on a leaky boat," he said.

But on Tuesday, when asked whether Labor had been involved in paying people smugglers while the party was in power, Mr Burke referred the matter to the immigration spokesman Richard Marles. When asked about the allegations, Mr Marles said wouldn't comment on it because it was "unlawful for the government or the opposition to divulge security or intelligence information." Early on Tuesday Mr Shorten told Labor's caucus meeting: "We have every right to ask questions about this and to expect answers. I will not cede this issue to the Liberals. They are not above reproach." Mr Shorten said: "We made mistakes in this area and we have learned the difficult lessons of the past." Asked later by reporters to explain what those "mistakes" were, Mr Shorten said Labor had introduced policies which allowed people smugglers to take advantage of Australia's generosity.

Indonesia has demanded answers from the Abbott government about the payment allegations, with Indonesia's vice-president saying such "bribes" would be wrong and "definitely incorrect in the context of bilateral relations". Mr Shorten said a key issue was whether Immigration Minister Peter Dutton and Foreign Minister Julie Bishop had misled the Australian people by initially denying Australia had paid people smugglers to turn a boat around. Prime Minister Tony Abbott has since refused to comment on the claims. "Because of the chaos of this government the Prime Minister must rule out paying people smugglers to keep people on unsafe boats," Mr Shorten said. Loading "What they are doing now is either incompetent or dishonest."