Two men jailed for the murder of an Australian businessman in Bali have responded angrily after getting heavier sentences than the victim's wealthy wife, who planned the hit.

Adolf Malo Rangga and Martin Ngongo Bili have been sentenced to 15 years in jail for their parts in the murder of Robert Ellis, 60, in October last year.

Noor Ellis, his wife of 25 years, was last month jailed for 12 years for arranging five men to ambush her husband in their Sanur villa, and directing two maids to clean up the mess after his throat was slashed on the kitchen floor.

Mr Ellis' family slammed the lenient sentence, which the prosecution will not appeal.

Rangga hit back at the judges in Denpasar District Court on Monday, asking why they were punished more harshly.

Chief Judge Ahmad Peten Sili said he "should be grateful".

"You killed a man. A planned killing should be punished with death," he said.

"It's so easy for you to kill people ... You're dangerous.

"If someone told you to carry a bag of rice, that would be OK.

"But you were told to kill a man, and you were willing?"

Martin, meanwhile, sat alongside Rangga crying.

Their lawyer, Hari Purwanto, said he would consider an appeal.

The men were the last of the five to be arrested for the crime, after a manhunt on the island of Sumba.

Police alleged Martin made arrangements for the hit "starting from the strategy, finance and recruiting the killers".

Rangga's role, said police, was to hold Mr Ellis down while another man slit his throat.

Mr Ellis's body was found wrapped in plastic in a rice field.

His wife eventually confessed to involvement in the crime, telling police her husband had been unfaithful and withheld money from her.

Friends of the late businessman have since tried to straighten the record, saying his Indonesian wife was well provided for, and it was she who was the unfaithful partner.

Martin and Rangga were the final two people to face court over Mr Ellis' murder.

Three other men, who shared with them the Rp 150 million ($A14,220) payment from Ellis, were also sentenced to 12 years' jail.

The maids were sentenced to seven years in jail for their roles.