A FORMER Australian diplomat turned expatriate businessman has been locked up in a Bali jail for two months over a property dispute with an Indonesian actor.

Patrick Morris Alexander was arrested at his Jakarta home this week and brought to Bali after his appeal against a sentence backfired and his jail term was increased instead of decreased.

The 62-year-old is now in Gianyar jail in Bali, where authorities say he will serve a two-month sentence after being convicted of the charge of unlawfully entering private property. He denies the charge.

Details of the actual crime are murky and complicated, as are details of a previous jail stay in Jakarta for alleged embezzlement over funds for a coal venture.

Police said he was convicted of fraud and money laundering offences, for which he was sentenced to three years and six months jail. Alexander always denied those charges.

But his jail time was not over.

At 1am on Tuesday this week, police from Bali, armed with an arrest warrant, were at the front door of his home in South Jakarta. Police said that initially he refused to go.

“When arrested, the convict refused to come, saying that the fugitive letter we brought was a fake. But finally we brought him to the car and took him to Bali,” a police source said.

Bali police spokesman Hery Wiyanto said that police had been given a letter, outlining that he was a fugitive and to be arrested to serve out his sentence, as stipulated by the courts.

The sentence stemmed back to what appears to be a dispute with former Indonesian television star turned businessman Jeremy Thomas over ownership and residence of a villa in Ubud, Bali.

In November 2014, Alexander was convicted of unlawfully entering private property, and sentenced to one month in jail and two months probation.

Alexander appealed the sentence to the Bali High Court, and in March this year it increased the sentence to two months in jail, with no probation period.

His arrest was made at the request of the Gianyar prosecutors office.

The crime section head, Mohamad Arifin, told News Corp that the prosecutors had asked for police assistance because Alexander had been summoned several times but failed to come.

“We, as prosecutors, have an obligation to execute the court verdict. As he has been sentenced to two months imprisonment by the Bali High Court, he has to serve the sentence at the prison,” Mr Arifin said.

The case appears to revolve around ownership and a rental contract on the Bali villa.

Alexander’s Indonesian wife, Ara, and lawyer Firman Chandra, were yesterday quoted by Indonesian news portal Beritasatu.com as saying that the arrest was a “kidnap” and had violated proper procedure.

“When I got out my husband is being forced to get into the car. As I feel scared that those people only pretended to be police I went upstairs and locked the door and called my lawyer to explain the case.

“And now I don’t know where my husband is, I concluded that this is a kidnap,” Ara said at a Jakarta police station.

Mr Chandra said the arrest had violated police procedure as the police did not give their letter of arrest and didn’t ask for the signature of Alexander’s wife.

Before the arrests and legal trouble started, Alexander and Ara were regulars on Jakarta’s social scene.