AIRLINES are now looking to add flights to and from Bali as a change of wind helps to push away the ash cloud that has repeatedly closed airports.

The cloud is now expected to clear by early Monday afternoon.

Bureau of Meteorology forecaster Chris Davies told AAP: “Overnight we have started to see the winds shift so they are gradually turning to the north, which is pushing the plume of volcanic ash slowly to the south.

“So we are expecting during the course of the day for the ash to move south of the volcano rather than southeast, which will then clear it away from Bali.” Flights may take longer to resume to normal.

Flights to and from Bali were cancelled after a volcanic ash cloud from Indonesia’s Mount Raung made conditions unsuitable for flying.

All but four of Virgin Australia’s Monday services were cancelled and those still scheduled to go ahead in the afternoon are under review.

“We have been advised that Mt Raung continues to erupt and winds are blowing in an unfavourable direction,” Virgin Australia said.

Jetstar said it will operate a full schedule on Monday and will review its flights for early Tuesday.

“We are reviewing options for additional flights from Bali to Australia to get our passengers moving as soon as possible,” Jetstar said.

“Any additional flights will be subject to clear flying conditions and local approvals.”

media_camera Eruption ... Mount Raung volcano emits steam and ash in Banyuwangi. Picture: AFP

“For the ash to clear from Bali, it will only take two to three more hours, but it will take more than that for airlines to start up again,” Mr Davies said.

“We are reviewing options for additional flights from Bali to Australia to get our passengers moving as soon as possible,” Jetstar said.

“Any additional flights will be subject to clear flying conditions and local approvals.” Garuda Indonesia airline resumed flights to and from Denpasar Airport on Monday.

All other Indonesian airports are back to normal, except Banyuwangi Airport, which will remain closed until 4pm (local time) on Monday, Garuda said in a statement.

Mt Raung volcano has caused mayhem for airways since it began spewing corrosive, silica-based ash in early July.

Originally published as Wind helps move Bali ash cloud away