Datuk Abdul Aziz Kaprawi opens Lembah Pantai Umno Division delegates meetings at Grand Ballroom Nexus,Bangsar South City. — Picture by Choo Choy May

KUALA LUMPUR, Aug 23 — The DAP will lodge a police report against Umno deputy minister Datuk Abdul Aziz Kaprawi for claiming the party has Jewish backers, Lim Guan Eng said today.

Lim, who is DAP secretary-general, labelled the allegation malicious and accused Abdul Aziz of attempting to divert public attention away from the RM2.6 billion given to Prime Minister Datuk Najib Razak by a mysterious Middle Eastern donor.

“Umno has lost its mind,” the Penang lawmaker said in a statement. “It is clear Umno is now bankrupt of ideas on how to rule... and is attempting to cover-up power abuse and corruption scandals in the government.”

“This is why its leaders are issuing stupid slanderous claims of an alleged Jewish conspiracy by the DAP, which has no truth at all.

“To counter this, DAP leaders will lodge a police report and urge for action on this baseless, defamatory allegation.”

At the Sri Gading Umno divisional meeting yesterday, party leaders Datuk Ahmad Zahid Hamidi and Datuk Abdul Aziz Kaprawi spoke about the controversial RM2.6 billion donation, with both leaders suggesting the funds were channelled to Najib’s accounts to help Umno during the polls.

According to Abdul Aziz, who is also Sri Gading Umno chief, the funds were meant to help Umno fight “Jewish-backed” DAP during Election 2013.

Zahid, who is Umno vice-president and deputy prime minister, said he met with representatives of the Middle Eastern donor who told him the funds were given as a sign of thanks for Malaysia’s efforts against terrorism.

Zahid also said the donor wanted to keep Umno and Barisan Nasional (BN) in power.

But in refuting the claims, Lim pointed out today that there was no way that the DAP would have wrested power from BN in the last federal polls as the party had only contested in 51 federal constituencies, two of which were against Umno candidates.

“Don’t tell me they needed RM2.6 billion just to fight DAP in the two seats,” the DAP leader pointed out.