THE Australian government is bracing for a wave of radicalised prisoners set to be released from jails in the region, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop told a high level US counter terrorism forum.

Ms Bishop said the number of terrorist prisoners set to be released “runs into the hundreds”, and that the Australian government was also fearful they were spreading their extremism through prisons.

“We are aware that in the coming years a significant number of prisoners in Indonesian prisons who have been convicted of terrorist related activities will be released,” Ms Bishop said.

“It runs into the hundreds. If they have not been rehabilitated they pose a serious risk not only to Indonesia but to our region.”

The forum was hosted by US Secretary of State John Kerry who said he wanted to address the “lifecycle” of radicalisation with grass roots programs like mentoring.

New figures show the number of foreign fighters who have travelled to Iraq and Syria has jumped from 15,000 to 30,000 in the past year — a rise that’s also reflected in Australia.

Ms Bishop said the number of Australians in Iraq and Syria supporting ISIS and other terrorist groups had doubled in the past year, to 120.

Ms Bishop said despite the increase she was expecting to stem the trajectory so that the number wouldn’t double again in the next 12 months.

“We can’t wipe out this kind of perverted ideology in a matter of days or weeks, it will take quite some time.”

She said Australia was working closely with Indonesia to confront radicalisation in prisons, focusing on rehabilitation and reintegration of radical prisoners and finding ways to prevent them spreading their ideas inside jail.

This includes a training program to help prison staff identify and respond to radicalisation among inmates.

“We are focusing specifically on rehabilitation and working with prisoners who have been convicted of violent crimes including terrorist related crimes. In Australia we’re sharing ideas and best practice with Indonesia,” she said.

Mr Kerry said the US would give vulnerable governments around the world knowledge to help prevent radicalisation in the first place and to halt individuals already in the process.

Ms Bishop said Australia was already doing grassroots work, and that a “multigenerational” focus was needed.