Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla argues that term ‘Indigenous Entrepreneur’ should now refer to the group of businessman who are pro-Indonesia, such as by keeping their funds within the country, not by their race

Vice President Jusuf Kalla. (Photo source: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg News/Landov)

Perspective

Jakarta, GIVnews.com – Vice President Jusuf Kalla on Tuesday (27/10) called on members of the Association of Indigenous Indonesian Entrepreneur (HIPPI) to redefine their identity.

Kalla, a businessman-turned politician, said that nowadays ‘indigenous entrepreneur’ (pengusaha pribumi) can no longer refer to a certain race of people. Any citizens who are willing and capable to activate the country’s domestic economy are ‘indigenous businessman’, he noted.

Jusuf Kalla made the remarks when addressing a meeting in Jakarta which marked the 39th anniversary of HIPPI.

The Vice President further noted that “Indigenous entrepreneur are those who do not keep their funds in foreign countries. If they place them here in Indonesia, then they can be called nationalists.”

HIPPI was established in 1976 and, according to the Vice President, it aimed to balance the Indonesian economy which was then controlled by foreigners. In those times the government nationalized various foreign companies, Kalla noted.

Kalla further reminded HIPPI members that they are called nationalists if they pay their taxes as required by existing laws. They can also show the spirit of nationalism by teaming up with business newcomers so that they can develop together, the Vice President said.

In the past, under the leadership of Indonesia’s longest serving president Soeharto, pengusaha pribumi was also opposed to Chinese-Indonesia businessmen.

Meanwhile, the current government is luring Indonesian entrepreneurs to repatriate their money from overseas. By investing their capital in Indonesia they help boost its economic growth.

Against this backdrop, a group of parliament (DPR) members had initiated the drafting of a bill on tax amnesty, which aims to encourage violating taxpayers to return their money to Indonesia. With such a law, tax evaders are pardoned and pay a defined amount in exchange for forgiveness without fear of criminal prosecution.

An estimated Rp 3,000 to 4,000 trillion of money owned by Indonesian nationals has been reportedly stored in Singapore and other countries for decades. A significant portion of the amount was alleged derived from tax evasions and other illegal practices. In Singapore alone, the amount reportedly reaches an estimated Rp 3,000 trillion.