People arrested from the rival gangs lie on a floor at Denpasar Police Station on Thursday night following the violence. Photo: Supplied

Indonesian soldiers stand guard outside Bali's Kerobokan jail after the deadly gang fight. Photo: Amilia Rosa

Indonesia police transfer prisoners from the rival gangs from Kerobokan jail to other prisons in Bali. On the side of the police bus it says "prisoner car - anti premanisme (anti thugs)" Photo: Amilia Rosa

Indonesian police vehicles stand outside Bali's Kerobokan jail after the gang battle. Photo: Amilia Rosa

Preparations at Kerobokan jail for the transferral of 110 prisoners from the rival gangs to other prisons in Bali. Photo: Amilia Rosa

Three people are dead after a riot broke out inside Bali's Kerobokan jail between two rival gangs.

Prison authorities have confirmed that none of the Australians incarcerated in the prison - including three members of the Bali nine - were involved in the deadly battle.

"They were all in the their block, they are all safe," the head of Bali corrections, Nyoman Putra Surya Atmaja, told Fairfax Media.

"Now all prisoners are back in their block."

The fight was between members of two notorious Bali gangs, Laskar Bali and Baladika Bali.

Two members of Baladika Bali, which reportedly has a membership of about 25,000, were killed at Kerobokan prison.

One hundred and ten prisoners belonging to both groups, who were involved in the fights, were transferred to five other jails in Bali late on Thursday night.

Fifteen suspected to be the main perpetrators are being detained at Badung police station for questioning.

A bomb squad truck, two fire trucks, a water canon truck, a police truck and multiple police were guarding the prison on Thursday night.

Part of the road was closed off.

Police also did a sweep of where the two gangs are known to hang out, including Laskar Bali headquarters in Padang Sambian.

The two Baladika members who died in the attacks are Putu Sumariana, aka Robot, who died from an injury to his abdomen and Putu Sumarjaya, aka Dogler, who was injured under his left and right armpits.

Fairfax Media understands the fight broke out at the prison around 11am this morning between two members of Laskar and Baladika who were visiting the jail.

At around 4pm, the Laskar Bali block D at the prison attacked the Baladika block C and two men were killed and two injured.

Later, another Baladika member was killed at a fight scene in Denpasar, the capital of Bali.

The man, known as Mr X, sustained a stab wound to the abdomen, causing his intestines to burst.

Mr Atmaja, the head of Bali Corrections, said extra security was outside the jail as a precaution.

"We don't know yet what caused the fight, we just broke them up and secured them," he said. "That's our priority."

Australians at Kerobokan jail include Bali nine drug mules Si Yi Chen, Matthew Norman and Michael Czugaj, and Joshua Terelinck, who was sentenced on Wednesday to two months and 15 days' jail for negligently causing the death of a Balinese man in a motorcycle accident.

Laskar Bali, literally Bali Army, is the oldest and best known gang on the island. It was established in 2002 and dominates the nightclub security business.

Its logo is the trishula, the weapon wielded in mythology by the Hindu god Shiva and used to sever the head of Ganesha.

Baladika is an offshoot of Laskar that was formed following an internal division. It is the second largest gang after Laskar Bali.

Another inter-gang dispute was the trigger for two days of rioting at Kerobokan prison in 2012, when the administration block was badly burned.

Fairfax Media last year reported that the gangs' power is obvious inside Kerobokan prison.

Sources told the Good Weekend in 2014 almost all Indonesian inmates were members of one of the groups, which were involved in protection and extortion, and controlled the supply of drugs. "Everyone joins or is forced [to join] ... the gangs recruit and indoctrinate, especially the young guys. They focus on [building] numbers," one prisoner said. "Even guards are unofficial - and some are official - members."