Jakarta: Another suspected terrorist has reportedly been arrested by Indonesia's counter terrorism forces in West Java.

The police anti-terrorism unit, known as Detachment 88, arrested the suspect on Wednesday morning in Bekasi.

"True, this morning we raided someone suspected of terrorism," National police chief Badrodin Haiti was quoted saying in Tribunnews.com.

Indonesian police failed to arrest another terrorist group suspected of assembling a bomb with a house in West Sumatra found deserted during a raid this week.

The head of the National Intelligence Agency (BIN), Sutiyoso, this week warned Indonesia was on "alert one" for a terrorist attack - the highest possible level.

The weekend arrest of nine terrorist suspects, who were allegedly plotting to target churches and police stations in Sumatra, Java and Kalimantan, has heightened fears Indonesia will be attacked by supporters of IS over the Christmas and New Year period.

The Australian government updated its travel advice for Indonesia on Tuesday, warning the Indonesian government had recently increased security across the archipelago, "which underscores the ongoing high threat of terrorism".

However the overall level of advice has not changed, with travellers to Indonesia, including Bali, recommended to exercise a "high degree of caution".

"We advise you to reconsider your need to travel to Central Sulawesi, Papua and West Papua provinces, where additional safety and security risks exist," the Australian government website says.

The Indonesian police counter-terrorism unit Detachment 88 and West Sumatran police raided a house in Sijunjung on Monday but the suspected terrorists fled, according to news outlet Tempo.

West Sumatra police chief Bambang Sri Herwanto said the house was empty but police found a bottle, pipes and white powder.

"We suspect this is equipment to assemble a bomb," he said.

West Sumatra police are reportedly interrogating local community members to try to obtain information about the routines of the alleged terrorists and their network in West Sumatra.

Eighty thousand police officers and 70,000 military officers will provide security at churches, airports, railway stations, shopping malls and other public places across Indonesia.

Indonesian President Joko Widodo is expected to celebrate Christmas in Kupang in East Nusa Tenggara, which is one of 13 areas that police have assessed to be particularly vulnerable to attack.

Security risk consultancy firm Hill and Associates warned people to remain vigilant and avoid large crowded public spaces.