Bridgette Anderson speaks during a news conference after the Dekalb County district attorney announced he would seek to indict a police officer who shot and killed her boyfriend, Air Force veteran Anthony Hill Thursday. (John Bazemore/AP)

GEORGIA

Officer may be charged in death of veteran

Prosecutors in DeKalb County, Ga., will seek a criminal indictment of the police officer who fatally shot Anthony Hill, an Afghanistan war veteran who was naked and unarmed when he was killed last March.

District Attorney Robert James said Thursday that he will recommend a criminal grand jury indict Officer Robert Olsen on two counts of felony murder, two counts of violation of an officer’s oath, aggravated assault and making a false statement.

A criminal grand jury will begin hearing evidence this month, James said. Hill, 27, was allegedly behaving erratically when Olsen shot and killed him.

— Wesley Lowery

TEXAS

‘Affluenza’ teen’s mom is jailed in home state

The mother of a teen who used an “affluenza” defense after killing four people in a drunken crash was returned Thursday to Texas to face a charge of helping her son flee to Mexico.

Tonya Couch, who was deported from Mexico last week, was taken to the Tarrant County jail in handcuffs and leg irons. She is expected to be arraigned Friday on a charge of hindering the apprehension of a felon. Her bond was set at $1 million.

At his trial in the 2013 crash, the defense claimed Ethan Couch, now 18, couldn’t distinguish right from wrong because of his pampered upbringing. Authorities say the teen and his mother fled Texas in November as prosecutors investigated whether he had violated his probation.

Ethan Couch is being held at an immigration detention center in Mexico City after winning a court reprieve.

— Associated Press

Alabama sues to block Syrian refugees: Alabama on Thursday became the second state to sue the U.S. government over refugee resettlement, accusing the Obama administration of failing to consult with states on placement of those who have fled their home countries. The suit was filed in federal court in Birmingham, said Jennifer Ardis, spokeswoman for Gov. Robert Bentley (R). Texas sued last month to try to block six Syrian refugees from settling in Dallas.

Indicted Texas trooper surrenders: A Texas trooper who arrested a black motorist who was later found hanged in her jail cell turned himself in Thursday to be booked on a misdemeanor perjury charge related to the arrest six months ago, authorities said. The family of the woman, Sandra Bland, said earlier in Chicago that the charge against Trooper Brian Encinia was not enough and that he should be indicted for assault, battery and false arrest. Encinia surrendered to Texas Rangers after the perjury indictment. He is accused of lying in an affidavit about the arrest of Bland. Bond has been set at $2,500.

Judge rules monkey has no right over photo: A macaque monkey that snapped clear, perfectly framed selfies cannot own a copyright to the photos because it is not a human, a federal judge said Wednesday. U.S. District Judge William Orrick said that Congress did not extend federal copyright-law protection to animals. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals filed a lawsuit last year seeking a court order allowing the animal rights group to administer all proceeds from the photos for the benefit of Naruto, a 6-year-old monkey that lives in a reserve on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. Natuto snapped the photos during British nature photographer David Slater’s 2011 trip to Sulawesi.

— From news services