Jakarta police reveal names of those killed in deadly attack

At least one of the five assassins in the Jakarta attacks had been jailed for terrorism offences raising fears those convicted are becoming further radicalised behind bars.

The identity of the gunman photographed roaming the streets wearing a Nike cap, jeans and sneakers during the deadly assault has been revealed as Sunakim (alias Afif), who was arrested in 2010 and sentenced to seven years' jail for his role in a militant training camp in Aceh.

While in Cipinang, a top security prison in Jakarta, he became the masseur for Aman Abdurrahman, one of Indonesia's most influential jihadist ideologues and a vocal promoter of Islamic State.

The firebrand police believe is behind the attacks, Bahrun Naim, was also jailed in 2011 for possessing firearms. He is fighting for Islamic State in Syria.

National Counter-terrorism Agency director Brigadier General Dr Hamidin said the attacks occurred because prison sentences for terrorists were too light.

"They were released from prison and expanded their radicalism by recruiting others," Dr Hamidin said.

Terrorism expert Noor Huda Ismail said there had been 40 known terrorist recidivism cases since 2009.

"It is a common theme and shows the failure of the political system to deradicalise convicted terrorists in prison and post release," Mr Ismail said.

He said Cipinang jail was designed for 900 prisoners and held about 3000 and there were simply insufficient wardens and parole officers.

Former Jemaah Islamiyah member Bagus Budi Pranoto, also known as Urwah, was sentenced to 3½ years in prison for harbouring a militant.

Soon after, he was involved in the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotel bombings in Jakarta in 2009, reportedly coming into contact with other convicted terrorists while in jail.

Abdul Rauf, who was jailed over the 2002 Bali bombings, went to Syria to fight for Islamic State in 2014 and later died in Iraq.

A 2013 report by the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict found that the Indonesian government had little capacity to provide adequate post-release monitoring.

It said the problem was that systems were not yet in place to keep track of individuals who were considered potential problems.

Mr Ismail also said in Indonesia it was not illegal to join paramilitary training or to carry out violence abroad. "As a result, even though police can identify and capture returned foreign fighters, they cannot charge them with any wrongdoing," he said.

Meanwhile, police arrested at least seven terrorist suspects on Friday in Bekasi, Tegal and Cirebon, all of whom were thought to have links to the terror mastermind Naim.

Cirebon Police Chief Sugeng Hariyanto said an IS flag was found during a raid in Cirebon on the north coast of Java.

He said three men were arrested based on preliminary investigation linking them to the Sarinah attacks.

"How they are linked we are still investigating," Mr Hariyanto said.

"We found cut up plastic pipes [similar to those used in the Jakarta attack], an ISIS flag, a paper for a baiat [the ceremony of the appointment of a leader], a laptop and several other items."

Central Java police spokesperson Alloysius Liliek Darmanto said police counter-terrorism unit Detachment 88 arrested two men in Tegal – Ali Mahmud aka Lulu and Fachrudin.

Evidence confiscated included 13 books, a pack of potassium, a video on Syria and jihad teaching and an airgun.