A+ A-

YOURSAY | ‘Everyone knows BN pays for people to attend its rallies.’

Noh Omar: We misled Najib but I blame Umno culture

Hot Khong: I am quite surprised that an Umno leader would admit to paying and bussing people to show up for ceramahs, even though it's already widely known.

And what for? Just so that the branch/division leaders can ‘ angkat ’ (brown-nose) the big chieftains?

GE14Now!: You claim that DAP is the bus driver and that PKR is only the conductor in Selangor. If I were to accept that, then we have to add another line.

In Malaysia, Umno is the chief scoundrel and the other parties like MCA and MIC are mindless zombies. I would rather have a bus that can be driven around.

LBS: Selangor Umno chief Noh Omar, you did not mislead PM Najib Razak. It was the other way round. Najib misled you and Umno, and also all the rakyat in this country.

Anonymous$&@?: This leader of the Selangor Umno election committee is just like his bosses; always putting the blame on others.

He is part of the problem and as the leader he should learn to take responsibility for their failed attempt to retake Selangor.

Does he think his bosses are so blind that they cannot see what is going on? Does he think he would be given a second chance?

Senior Citizen: Yes, the Umno leaders think Najib is stupid and they can claim money for events organised just to please him.

These Umno leaders were having a ‘ syiok sendiri ’ time during the election campaign. Indeed, who cares when millions were poured into their hands to hold these events.

Anonymous_3e06: It is always about massage parlours and brothels when it comes to DAP. How come there is no mention about DAP being against corruption that is allegedly Umno's patron saint? How come there is no mention of hard work that Umno is not used to.

Thirty thousand people turned up because the majority were paid to attend. It is these same people who kept receiving money from Umno to attend these events.

It's like hiring ‘professional’ ceramah attendees. Of course, everyone knows BN pays for people to attend their functions. But many of them don't support BN. Clearly, BN's time is up.

Anonymous_1425871172: BN has a good chance to recapture Selangor in the next general election.

Menteri Besar Azmin Ali's poor leadership and his friendly goons in PAS will definitely irk the Selangorians. DAP is not the driver, PAS is driving Azmin's team to doom.

Let's be realistic as all of us know that PAS is definitely going to lose all the seats that they are going to contest at the next election. As much as I hate BN's chance, I am not impressed with Azmin's leadership, too.

Nothing good has happened in Selangor. Too many digging of roads (not construction) are happening, and at a slow pace, causing horrendous traffic jams daily.

The one-way loop system in Petaling Jaya is still a big mess. All the contractors appointed to carry out the work remind me of the BN era.

If Pakatan Harapan does not act fast, I think Selangor will definitely be returned to BN on a silver platter.

Anonymous_4031c: As it stands, the rakyat believe that DAP has more credibility than Umno because of the latter’s many unanswered issues. This is an insurmountable perception based on the current trust deficit level.

In truth, DAP is not great. It’s just that DAP has been more consistent and principled in many of their stand on issues which makes them look good and sexier.

Dont Just Talk: Whoa, hold on, Noh Omar, are you telling the rakyat that the huge crowds turning up at Umno Baru rallies are the same, recycled 10,000 Umno Baru members, whose full-time job is to turn up at each and every event held by the party.

This is what you get when you pay these fellas pocket money just to show their faces at the events. After all, it is easy money to be made.

No wonder, poor Najib has to work very hard to seek ‘donations’ from rich Arab donors just to satisfy the needs of each and every Umno Baru party member.

Mojo Jojo: If Selangor should be ashamed of its drop in foreign direct investment (FDI), then what about the federal government that has seen a massive drop in FDI?

Noh, use your brain before you speak.

Wira: The people of Selangor want an honest government, which will rule the state fairly and honestly. You are right about Umno culture. So from now on, don't cheat or trick your constituents. The people have eyes.

Ferdtan: A warning to the PKR-led government. There is a lull in the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) investigating its lawmakers.

That does not mean that there are no problems with corruption, or perceived corruption as loosely interpreted by the BN enforcement authorities.

I believe that it is a trap to lure Azmin and his exco members into complacency, making them careless in not following proper procedures, especially dealing with financial matters.

Don’t think for a minute that BN in Selangor are not preparing for the ‘war’, which is due in two years’ time.

My calculated guess is when the next general election is called you can expect many scandals, real and imaginary, involving PKR, DAP and Amanah.

PAS will be left alone as they can serve Umno’s purpose by been the thorn to the unity of Pakatan. Azmin, don’t say you have not been warned.

Eagle: You misled Najib. Najib misled the nation. The right thing for you to do is to sack yourself and take responsibility.

The above is a selection of comments posted by Malaysiakini subscribers. Only paying subscribers can post comments. Over the past one year, Malaysiakinians have posted over 100,000 comments. Join the Malaysiakini community and help set the news agenda. Subscribe now .

These comments are compiled to reflect the views of Malaysiakini subscribers on matters of public interest. Malaysiakini does not intend to represent these views as fact.