FOREIGNERS are returning to terrorist hit-lists in Indonesia amid fears of more attacks in the wake of competition between different extremist factions.

And a new report reveals that the January 14 attacks in central Jakarta, which killed eight people, were planned and orchestrated from behind bars by a terrorist prisoner known as one of the country’s most dangerous ideologues.

The report, from the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict, headed by terror expert Sidney Jones, reveals that the targets of the January attacks were foreigners and police and warns of further terrorist attacks in Indonesia.

“More terrorist attacks in Indonesia are likely as local ISIS leaders compete at home and abroad to establish their supremacy,” the report says.

In fighting and competition between the country’s different Jihadi groups, including those currently in Syria “will produce an increase in terrorist plots that regional law enforcement agencies will be hard-pressed to contain”, the report warns.

“Targets are also more diversified, with foreigners coming back to terrorist hit lists, in addition to police officers and Shia.”

media_camera Indonesian police officers walks past debris at the scene of a bomb blast at a Starbucks Coffee store in Jakarta in January 2016. Picture: AAP

The report looks at disunity among Indonesia’s ISIS supporters, of which there is plenty, and at the January 14 attacks at a Starbucks Café and the Sarinah department store which left four civilians and four terrorists dead, all of them Muslim.

“The targets were clearly foreigners and police. There had been no attacks on foreigners since the Jakarta hotel bombings in 2009 but this time the attackers appear to have deliberately chosen Starbucks, perhaps as an icon of the West, and once inside aimed at the foreigners sitting there,” the report says.

2016: The year terrorism makes a comeback?

Prior to this the main target of terrorists had been police.

The Jakarta attack was carried out by a group called Partisans of the Caliphate or Jamaah Anshar Khilafah or JAK, which is lead by terrorist prisoner Aman Abdurrahman, who is Indonesia’s leading pro-ISIS cleric.

Abdurrahman is jailed at Nusakambangan, the island jail where last year drug traffickers were executed by firing squad.

media_camera Aman Abdurrahman, the terrorist ideologue jailed in Indonesia who is said to be the mastermind of the January 20156 terrorist attacks in Jakarta. Picture: AFP

From here he is said to control his terrorist group, translating propaganda and communicating via social media with his followers, including ordering the Jakarta attacks, despite being in a supposedly high-security jail.

Abdurrahman is jailed with fellow cleric, Abu Bakar Bashir, with whom he has had a recent falling out. Both were jailed for their role in a terrorist training camp in Aceh and Bashir is currently running a judicial review of his case.

ICYMI, last week our director @sidneyIPAC wrote about the "steadily growing pull" of ISIS in Indonesia http://t.co/AOrOSPgYZ5 @ASPI_org — IPAC (@IPACJakarta) July 21, 2015

Two of the shooters in the January attacks were also former prisoners.

The IPAC report says the Indonesian Government needs to do much more to clean up the corruption that pervades the country’s “woefully lax” prison system.

“Inmates like Aman (Abdurrahman) continue to expand their influence through regular meetings with friends and followers. Plots are hatched in prisons and materials — and sometimes people — are smuggled in and out with ease,” the report says.

And it warns that competition and disunity between the different groups of ISIS supporters makes more violence likely.

media_camera People hold placards and banners displaying the words "we are not afraid" during a rally after the Jakarta terrorist attack in January2016 in Jakarta. Picture: Getty

The difficulty in crossing from Turkey into Syria means there are likely to be more potential fighters who want to bring on the war at home that in the past two years. At the end of last year more than 215 Indonesians had been deported home by Turkey.

The report labels the recent Jakarta attack as “amateurish” — the weapons were poor, one was homemade and the bombs were crude — and says the shooters were poorly trained and could not even hit targets at close range.

Originally published as Tourists back in terror sights