Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Political, Legal and Security Affairs, Luhut Panjaitan. Photo: Jefri Tarigan

Jakarta: Indonesia has cracked down on terrorists incarcerated on the notorious penal island of Nusakambangan amid concerns the Jakarta attacks were plotted there behind bars.

Fairfax Media understands 27 mobile phones were found in the cells of Indonesia's leading pro-Islamic State cleric Aman Abdurrahman and the Australian embassy bomber Rois after the January 14 attacks.

The four terrorists killed in the Jakarta bombings had reportedly visited Nusakambangan three times since May last year.

Chief Security Minister Luhut Panjaitan led a delegation to the island on Thursday after ordering radical extremists be moved to a maximum security unit in Pasir Putih prison.

A source told Fairfax Media that security X-rays at five of the prisons visited on the island on Thursday were not working.

Mr Panjaitan said an important outcome of the visit was tighter security for drug dealers and terrorists, with more officers guarding high-risk prisons.

Drug convicts with heavy sentences and leading terrorists would be placed in solitary cells, with visitors regulated.

Mr Panjaitan told reporters he went to Nusakambangan because the government understood that some of the activities of the convicted terrorists within the jails were "very free".

"They have too much freedom. The government of Indonesia is now trying to implement the regulations," he said.

Terrorism expert Sidney Jones recently wrote that the January 14 attacks, which killed eight people, are now known to have been carried out by an Indonesian group called Partisans of the Caliphate (Jamaah Anshar Khilafah) which is believed to be led from prison by Aman.

There is no information that Rois, who is on death row over his role in the deadly 2004 Australian embassy bombings, was directly involved in the Jakarta attacks.

The head of Pasir Putih prison told Fairfax Media that Mr Panjaitan had ordered that Aman and Abu Bakar Bashir - the man who inspired the 2002 Bali bombings - be placed in maximum security cells three days ago.

"They can only be visited by their immediate families, such as wives and children, plus doctors and lawyers," prison head Hendra Eka said.

He said the cells were also guarded by 10 fully armed police and military officers.

Mr Panjaitan said Indonesia could now trace the source of funds for drugs and terrorism, with the flow between Russia and Indonesia "quite huge".

Australia's financial intelligence agency Austrac last year said it had seen an increase in the number of financial transactions in Australia suspected of being linked to terrorism, particularly involving IS.

However Australian ambassador Paul Grigson told the Rappler news outlet earlier this month there was no evidence of a financial link between Australia and the Jakarta attacks.