Press Release

Jakarta – With a mission to break open access to healthcare for Indonesian people, Konsula provides two products: Konsula Search and Konsula Connect.

Konsula Search is Indonesia’s #1 doctors’ directory, the first one in the country that provides patients with online doctor booking services. It is specifically designed to connect patients with the most suitable healthcare professionals such as medical doctors, physiotherapists, certified alternative healthcare professionals, and even veterinarian.

In January 2016, Konsula launched their second product: Konsula Connect. Konsula Connect is a cloud-based software, which helps doctors and clinics optimize their practices. It enables doctors to focus on what they do best: treating patients. Being a Konsula user, doctors will no longer have to worry about other tasks that may divert 800their focus such as clinic management.

Konsula believes that digitizing Indonesia’s healthcare sector is key in order to help millions of Indonesians to obtain a better healthcare access.

Based on a survey conducted to 500 patients with an age span between 18 – 55 years old, 94% of the respondents stated they go to doctors at least 3 times per year. It turns out that their top three factors when choosing their doctors are, among others, location, reputation and recommendation from others. These three factors are now filters that can be found in Konsula Search. Another factor that correlates to patients’ willingness when going to a doctor is the waiting time.

“Conventionally, a patient usually must spend around 3.5 hours to find a doctor through recommendation from family and friends, book an appointment, do on-site registration, and wait in the clinic. Based on several tests we conducted to 150 users, Konsula Search was able to streamline this process so patients only need around 15 minutes to finish the entire process of search, book, online registration, and wait before they finally meet a doctor. After the consultation ends, patients can submit recommendation and reviews of their doctors. With our products, we want to bring doctors-patients relationship to a new level of comfort.” Shinta Nurfauzia, CEO of Konsula, explained in details.

Right now, Konsula has registered 1,300 doctors following their beta launch in October 28, 2015. If a patient wants to reserve a consultation with a doctor who is not listed in their database, Konsula vouched that it will still handle such inquiry to ease the patient’s pain of booking the doctor. Hence, patients can book any doctor—even one who is not in their database—through their website or SMS and whatsapp to +62 812 9190 2100.

Konsula Search is free for patients and accessible at www.konsula.com.