SYDNEY, Australia The government in Australia on Thursday warned about a terror strike in Indonesia where terrorists are likely in the "advanced stages of preparing attacks"

The Australian government urged its citizens traveling to Indonesia to take precautions. The latest warning comes days after a similar caution about neighbouring Malaysia.

"Recent indications suggest that terrorists may be in the advanced stages of preparing attacks in Indonesia," the Department of Foreign

Affairs and Trade (DFAT) said in an updated travel advisory on Thursday.

"We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution in Indonesia, including Jakarta, Bali and Lombok, due to the high threat of terrorist attack."

The government cited the January 14 attacks in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta where at least eight people were killed. It said the last month attacks pointed to an ongoing threat.

"We continue to receive information that indicates that terrorists may be planning attacks in Indonesia," the department wrote. "An attack could occur anywhere at any time."

The department gave no further details.

Indonesia, a home to largest Muslim population in a country, recently eradicated the extremist group Jemaah Islamiyah in counterterrorism operations. The group was responsible for several attacks, including the 2002 bombings of bars in Bali which killed 202 people, as well as two hotel bombings in Jakarta in 2009 that killed seven people.

Police last week arrested dozens of suspected Islamic extremists on Java Island. However, it was not clear if they were linked to gun and suicide attacks in Jakarta last month.

The Jakarta attacks were claimed by the Islamic State group, which has provided a potent new rallying cry for Islamic extremists in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority country.

Indonesia's government has outlawed the Islamic State group, which is considered the most deadly of terror outfits. It has declared a socalled Islamic caliphate over large parts of Iraq and Syria where it rules.

There are fears that militants who travel abroad will return home and carry out attacks in Indonesia. Indonesian authorities estimate that more than 600 Indonesians have joined the extremist group in Syria or Iraq.