Chinese telecom fraud suspects are escorted off an aircraft by the police at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, capital of south China's Guangdong Province, April 30, 2016. A total of 97 Chinese telecom fraud suspects, including 32 Taiwanese, were sent back from Malaysia under the escort of Chinese police on Saturday. The suspects are involved in more than 100 major transnational telecom frauds related to over 20 provincial areas in Chinese mainland. (Xinhua/Liang Xu) Chinese telecom fraud suspects are escorted off an aircraft by the police at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, capital of south China's Guangdong Province, April 30, 2016. A total of 97 Chinese telecom fraud suspects, including 32 Taiwanese, were sent back from Malaysia under the escort of Chinese police on Saturday. The suspects are involved in more than 100 major transnational telecom frauds related to over 20 provincial areas in Chinese mainland. (Xinhua/Liang Xu) Chinese telecom fraud suspects are escorted off an aircraft by the police at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, capital of south China's Guangdong Province, April 30, 2016. A total of 97 Chinese telecom fraud suspects, including 32 Taiwanese, were sent back from Malaysia under the escort of Chinese police on Saturday. The suspects are involved in more than 100 major transnational telecom frauds related to over 20 provincial areas in Chinese mainland. (Xinhua/Liang Xu) Chinese telecom fraud suspects are escorted off an aircraft by the police at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, capital of south China's Guangdong Province, April 30, 2016. A total of 97 Chinese telecom fraud suspects, including 32 Taiwanese, were sent back from Malaysia under the escort of Chinese police on Saturday. The suspects are involved in more than 100 major transnational telecom frauds related to over 20 provincial areas in Chinese mainland. (Xinhua/Liang Xu) Chinese telecom fraud suspects are escorted off an aircraft by the police at Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou, capital of south China's Guangdong Province, April 30, 2016. A total of 97 Chinese telecom fraud suspects, including 32 Taiwanese, were sent back from Malaysia under the escort of Chinese police on Saturday. The suspects are involved in more than 100 major transnational telecom frauds related to over 20 provincial areas in Chinese mainland. (Xinhua/Liang Xu)

GUANGZHOU， April 30 (Xinhua) -- Malaysian police repatriated 97 telecom fraud suspects， including 32 from Taiwan， to the Chinese mainland on Saturday.

The 97 arrived in south China's Guangzhou City around 8:00 p.m.， all shackled and wearing black hoods.

In late March， Malaysian and Chinese mainland police cooperated in an investigation into five transnational telecommunications fraud cases involving victims from across the mainland， and arrested a total of 117 Chinese suspects， including 65 from the mainland， 52 from Taiwan.

Among the 52 from Taiwan， 20 were transferred to Taiwan authorities by Malaysian police on April 15.

The Chinese government requested Malaysia to transfer the rest of the suspects to the mainland as all the victims of the fraud trap are mainland residents.

The mainland has invited Taiwan police to cooperate in handling the case， according to the Ministry of Public Security (MPS).

In recent years， syndicates led by Taiwanese suspects and based in Southeast Asia， Africa and Oceania have been rampantly extorting money from people on the Chinese mainland through telephone calls by pretending to be law enforcement officers.

Kenyan police also deported 77 suspected telecom scammers in another two fraud syndicates， including 45 Taiwanese， to the Chinese mainland this month.

In one case cited by the MPS in a statement， a person surnamed Yang from Duyun City of Guizhou Province was cheated by a Taiwanese-led syndicate of 117 million yuan (18 million U.S. dollars) in December 2015.

Victims included migrant workers， teachers， students and elderly people from the mainland， and some of them committed suicide after being cheated of a large sum of money， the statement said.

Following Saturday's repatriation， An Fengshan， a mainland spokesman with the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office， "strongly required" the Taiwan authorities to strengthen crackdown on telecom scams and measure harsh penalties for the crime.

In the past few years， police from the mainland and Taiwan have arrested more than 7，700 suspects， most of them from Taiwan， in joint maneuvers.

However， in many of the cases handled by Taiwan judicial organs， Taiwanese suspects were not brought to justice and victims on the mainland were unable to retrieve their money， An said earlier at a press conference.