Volcano erupts in western Indonesia, killing 6 people

JAKARTA, Indonesia (AP) — Rescuers have found more bodies after a volcano erupted in western Indonesia, raising the death toll to six, an official said Sunday.

Mount Sinabung in North Sumatra province blasted volcanic ash as high as 3 kilometers (2 miles) into the sky on Saturday, said National Disaster Management Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho. He said ash tumbled down the slopes as far as 4.5 kilometers (3 miles) westward into a river.

The mountain had been dormant for four centuries before reviving in 2010, killing two people. An eruption in 2014 killed 16 people.

In this image made from video, hot clouds of ash rise from Mount Sinabung, in Tanah Karo, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Saturday, May 21, 2016. The volcano in western Indonesian unleashed hot clouds of ash as it erupted on Saturday, killing and injuring a number of villagers. (AP Photo/APTN)

All the victims of Saturday's eruption were working on their farms in the village of Gamber, about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) away from the slope, or within the danger area. Video images showed dead farm animals covered in dust.

Nugroho said soldiers, police, and rescuers from disaster combatting agencies, as well as volunteers and villagers, were searching for more possible victims.

Mount Sinabung is among more than 120 active volcanoes in Indonesia, which is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the Pacific "Ring of Fire," an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the Pacific Basin.

In this image made from video, a man covered in dust leads rescuers after an eruption of Mount Sinabung, in Tanah Karo, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Saturday, May 21, 2016. The volcano in western Indonesian unleashed hot clouds of ash as it erupted on Saturday, killing and injuring a number of villagers. (AP Photo/APTN)

Medical workers prepare to put the body of one of the victims of the eruption of Mt. Sinabung into a coffin at a hospital in Kabanjahe, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Sunday, May 22, 2016. The volcano in western Indonesia unleashed hot clouds of ash on Saturday, killing several villagers, an official said. (AP Photo/Binsar Bakkara)

In this image made from video, dead animals are covered in dust after hot clouds of ash erupted from Mount Sinabung, in Tanah Karo, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Saturday, May 21, 2016. The volcano in western Indonesian unleashed hot clouds of ash as it erupted on Saturday, killing and injuring a number of villagers. (AP Photo/APTN)

Villagers and rescuers stand near a burning tree after it was hit by pyroclastic flows from the eruption of Mount Sinabung, background, in Gamber, North Sumatra, Indonesia, Saturday, May 21, 2016. The volcano in western Indonesian unleashed hot clouds of ash as it erupted on Saturday. (AP Photo/Sugeng Nuryono)