When Jessica Kumala Wongso saw her friend collapse and begin frothing at the mouth after drinking a coffee, she looked on and did nothing, prosecutors say.

An hour later Wayan Mirna Salihin was pronounced dead.

On the first day of Jessica's trial on Wednesday, Jakarta Central District Court heard how the pair - both 27 - had studied together at the design college Billy Blue in Sydney.

But they had a falling out about the middle of last year when Mirna discovered Jessica was in a relationship with a man in Australia.

No details were revealed in court about the boyfriend but prosecutors allege Mirna objected to him, saying he was "rough", treated Jessica badly and was a drug user.

Jessica did eventually break it off with him and to avenge her pain, the defendant planned to take away Mirna's life," prosecutors claimed.

To implement this plan, they allege Jessica reconnected with Mirna through the online messaging service WhatsApp on December 5, 2015 - one day before Jessica arrived in Indonesia from Australia.

Sometime between December 7 and 15, the pair, along with Mirna's husband Arief Setiawan Soemarko met in a restaurant in North Jakarta.

Then Jessica organised a catch-up with Mirna and another friend - Boon Juwita (known as Hani)- who also studied at Billy Blue.

On the day of the alleged murder on January 6, Jessica arrived at Olivier Restaurant in the Grand Indonesia mall well before the other women and ordered Mirna's favourite drink - an iced Vietnamese coffee.

After it was placed on the table, she allegedly moved to the middle of the table's booth seat, placed the coffee to her right and arranged three gift bags around it so no witnesses could see the coffee.

Soon after she returned to her original seat, pushing the drink towards the middle of the table and moving the three gift bags to the side.

When Hani and Mirna arrived, Jessica said: "This (coffee) is for you Mir, you said you wanted (it)."

Mirna drank it, exclaiming: "This is really not good, this is awful."

Two minutes later, prosecutors say, Mirna collapsed. Her head fell to the back of the sofa and she began foaming at the mouth and had a "blank look" on her face.

Hani called her name and tried to wake her up but Jessica, prosecutors alleged, just sat there quietly without reacting or helping.

An autopsy later found an anomaly in her stomach caused by a corrosive agent while the amount of cyanide found in the iced coffee - 298mg - was well over the lethal dose for a woman of Mirna's size, prosecutors say.

But Jessica's legal team criticised the prosecution's case, saying they had not provided any evidence as to where the cyanide was allegedly purchased or how their client allegedly administered it into the drink.

The autopsy also didn't establish the amount of cyanide found in Mirna's body.

They argued their client had passed a lie detector test - which had not applied to any other witnesses.

"If Jessica passed the lie detector test, why is she still a suspect?" lawyer Sordame Purba asked, calling for their client's immediate release.

The matter will return to court next week.

© AAP 2018