A Sydney design college student accused of poisoning her friend with a cyanide-laced iced coffee was driven by 'revenge', an Indonesian Court has been told.

It was alleged that when Jessica Kumala Wongso, 27, saw her friend collapse and begin to froth at the mouth after drinking a coffee, she looked on and did nothing.

An hour later Wayan Mirna Salihin, also 27, was pronounced dead.

Jessica Kumala Wongso is accused of poisoning Wayan Mirna Salihin - the former Sydney design college student was driven by 'revenge', according to prosecutors

Australian resident Jessica Wongso (at left) is accused of murdering her friend Mirna Salihin (right) by allegedly slipping cyanide into her iced coffee at a cafe in Jakarta in January

Wongso pictured on day one of her trial - she allegedly put cyanide in the victim's iced coffee

On the first day of Wongso's trial on Wednesday, Jakarta Central District Court heard how the pair had studied together at the design college Billy Blue in Sydney.

They had a falling out about the middle of last year when Mirna discovered Wongso was in a relationship with a man in Australia.

No details were revealed in court about the boyfriend but prosecutors allege Mirna objected to him, saying he was 'rough', treated Jessica badly and was a drug user.

She eventually broke off the relationship and to avenge her pain, 'the defendant planned to take away Mirna's life', according to prosecutors.

Jessica Kumala Wongso - the woman accused of killing her friend by slipping cyanide in her iced coffee could face the death penalty in Indonesia

The judges speak with Jessica Kumala Wongso's lawyers during her trial for the alleged murder of her friend Wayan Mirna Salihin at the Central Jakarta Court

Edi Darmawan Salihin (left), the father of Wayan Mirna Salihin, is seen in court during Jessica Kumala Wongso's trial for the alleged murder of her friend

Jessica Kumala Wongso sits in front of the presiding judges at her murder trial in Jakarta

Jessica Kumala Wongso consults with her lawyers during the first day of her trial

To implement this plan, they allege Wongso reconnected with Mirna through the online messaging service WhatsApp on December 5, 2015 - one day before she arrived in Indonesia from Australia.

Sometime between December 7 and 15, the pair, along with Mirna's husband Arief Setiawan Soemarko met in a restaurant in North Jakarta.

Then Wongso organised a catch-up with Mirna and another friend - Boon Juwita (known as Hani)- who also studied at Billy Blue.

On the day of the alleged murder on January 6, Wongso arrived at Olivier Restaurant in the Grand Indonesia mall well before the other women and ordered Mirna's favourite drink - an iced Vietnamese coffee.

After it was placed on the table, she allegedly moved to the middle of the table's booth seat, placed the coffee to her right and arranged three gift bags around it so no witnesses could see the coffee.

Soon after she returned to her original seat, pushing the drink towards the middle of the table and moving the three gift bags to the side.

Mirna Salihin (pictured), 27, died in January after police believe her iced coffee was spiked with cyanide a few weeks after she was married to Arief Soemarko (left)

As part of the investigation Wongso participated in a police reenactment of the alleged killing at Olivier Grant Cafe earlier this year (pictured above)

Jessica Kumala Wongso talks with her lawyers at the Central Jakarta Court. They have criticised the prosecution's case, saying they had not provided evidence as to where the cyanide was allegedly purchased

When Hani and Mirna arrived, she said: 'This (coffee) is for you Mir, you said you wanted (it).'

Mirna drank it, exclaiming: 'This is really not good, this is awful.'

Two minutes later, prosecutors say, Mirna collapsed.

Her head fell to the back of the sofa and she began foaming at the mouth and had a 'blank look' on her face.

Jessica Kumala Wongso is seen in a prisoner transport vehicle after her trial at the Central Jakarta Court

Jessica Kumala Wongso consults her lawyers during her trial for the alleged murder of her friend Wayan Mirna Salihin at the Central Jakarta Court in Jakarta

Wongso, accused of murdering a friend by slipping cyanide into her coffee at an upmarket Jakarta cafe

Hani called her name and tried to wake her up but Wongso, prosecutors alleged, just sat there quietly without reacting or helping.

An autopsy later found an anomaly in her stomach caused by a corrosive agent while the amount of cyanide found in the iced coffee - 298mg - was well over the lethal dose for a woman of Mirna's size, prosecutors say.

But Wongso's legal team criticised the prosecution's case, saying they had not provided any evidence as to where the cyanide was allegedly purchased or how their client allegedly administered it into the drink.

Wongso's legal team criticised the prosecution's case, saying they had not provided any evidence as to where the cyanide was allegedly purchased or how their client allegedly administered it into the drink

Wongso's legal team argued their client had passed a lie detector test - which had not applied to any other witnesses, and should be let go

The autopsy also didn't establish the amount of cyanide found in Mirna's body.

They argued their client had passed a lie detector test - which had not applied to any other witnesses.

'If Jessica passed the lie detector test, why is she still a suspect?' lawyer Sordame Purba asked, calling for their client's immediate release.

The matter will return to court next week.