Begging, homelessness, scavenging, busking and being a "punk". There are lots of things that can get you locked up in Jakarta.

The holy month of Ramadan proves to be a particularly busy time for the capital's "social homes" where more than 10,000 people are detained for a litany of activities.

"At Ramadan time people want to do good deeds so they (beggars) are taking advantage," Abdul Hakim, a staff member at a West Jakarta social home explained.

In February this home and a neighbouring facility had 526 people in detention - now there are more than 840 people.

"We have room for 250 but there are more than 300 people currently here," Mr Hakim told AAP.

There are 27 "homes" like the one Mr Hakim works at, spread across Jakarta.

Here people lounge around in normal clothes, are fed, watch TV and mingle freely with staff. There is no barbed wire, just tall walls and gates.

But under the capital's provincial regulation, people can be held for up to 60 days or face fines of up to 20 million rupiah ($A2000). They cannot appeal their detainment or take any other form of legal recourse.

"Some people complain about being here, saying they haven't done anything wrong. This place is not for criminals this is for people who are disturbing the peace," Mr Hakim said.

There are a long list of activities that can see someone being detained. Most are driven by poverty.

According to the World Bank around 40 per cent of Indonesia's population are clustered around the national poverty line - earning around 331,000 rupiah (A$33) per month.

In Jakarta this has led to some creative jobs, from people selling food to those sitting in grid-locked traffic to others charging around 20c to direct motorists out of a driveway.

Scavenging, begging, busking and being a `drag queen' are also forbidden, while mental illness, homelessness, leprosy, drug addiction and prostitution are also cause for detainment.

Switha Widya, 25, was brought to the West Jakarta facility in May after being picked up at the airport for being "aggressive".

She will be detained here for 21 days.

"I want to leave here (this social home) but I'm worried about not having any money," she told AAP.

Medical student and current intern at the social home in West Jakarta, Ariff Khairi said it was a common story.

While people at social homes receive medical assistance, food, shelter and may be transferred to nursing homes, rehabilitation centres and orphanages where they can access extra services, for many social homes are a place of repeated loss of liberty.

"The problem is they are sent back and they have no job opportunities to go to."

"Yesterday we had 150 people who were sent back. They all said, 'Where are we going to go?

"So the cycle it never stops."