POLICE claim Australian woman Sara Connor’s boyfriend repeatedly smashed a beer bottle into a Bali police officer’s head until the bottle broke in what they allege was a violent bashing that killed the officer.

A mobile phone and the officer’s own binoculars were also used to beat him on Kuta beach.

Police allege Connor, a mum of two from Byron Bay, then took the officer’s wallet and mobile phone and that it was Connor’s idea to burn the evidence, along with the couple’s bloody clothes.

media_camera Australian Sara Connor is escorted by police for a physical examination at Sanglah Hospital in Denpasar, Bali. Picture: Lukman S.Bintoro

AUSTRALIAN WOMAN AND BRITISH BOYFRIEND NOW SUSPECTS

Late tonight police took Connor and Brit David Taylor to Jimbaran to find the spot where the evidence was burned.

“They had a plan to burn the evidence, including the clothes and the victim’s mobile phone and wallet … so the cards in the wallet were cut up with scissors, the mobile phone was disposed of and everything in the wallet was cut up by scissors. There was a police member card and others. Then it was burned by Sara and David,” Denpasar Police chief Hadi Purnomo claimed.

He alleged that it was Connor’s idea to burn the evidence after she heard from a friend in Australia that she was wanted by the police.

media_camera British man David Taylor repeatedly smashed a beer bottle into a Bali police officer’s head until the bottle broke in what Bali police allege was a violent bashing that killed the officer. Picture: Lukman S.Bintoro

SARA CONNOR SOUGHT OVER POLICEMAN’S DEATH ON BALI BEACH

media_camera Sara Connor, the Byron Bay mother-of-two, has denied any role in the killing of the police officer. Picture: AAP / Sherpa Relations

Connor says she was not involved in the bashing murder and had tried to separate her boyfriend from the police officer and was unaware the officer had died.

“Sara said that she (was) not involved with this murder, she (was) not involved at all with this murder,” her lawyer Erwin Siregar said.

More details of the alleged crime, on a Kuta Beach in the early hours of August 17, emerged as the couple was taken by police for further physical examinations in hospital. A handcuffed Connor kept a green coloured sarong over her head while Taylor was wearing orange overalls emblazoned with the Indonesian word for suspect. Connor too was wearing an orange coat.

Sara Connor and David Taylor leaving a Bali hospital 0:43 Australian woman Sara Connor and her British boyfriend David Taylor leaving a Bail hospital under police guard. Sara Connor and David Taylor leaving a Bali hospital

As a result of exhaustive hours of interrogation, police have now said that in addition to being held as a suspect on a murder charge, that Connor is also being held on accomplice charges. Taylor is a suspect on murder, assault and battery charges

Comr Purnomo said it was alleged the motive for the vicious attack was a belief that the dead officer had stolen Connor’s handbag and was a fake officer.

Connor was interrogated for nine hours and Taylor for 12 hours on Monday during which, police claim, they retracted earlier confused statements and told a new version for how Wayan Sudarsa came to be found bloodied and dead with 17 head wounds.

Mr Purnomo said that Connor and Taylor were dating on the beach when Connor panicked upon realising her handbag was missing because it contained her licence and ATM card, wallet and money.

Seeing the police officer, who was on duty in the area, she asked if he had seen the bag.

Taylor then accused the officer of stealing the bag and of being a fake police officer. Mr Purnomo said that Taylor attempted to frisk the officer and offended, the officer pushed Taylor onto the sand.

media_camera Bali police officer Wayan Sudarsa, 53, who was found brutally murdered on a Kuta beach. Picture: Supplied

A fight ensued, and police will allege Connor also pushed the officer who also fell down and Connor was bitten by the victim. Connor pulled the officer’s hair and he pulled her hair during the beach tussle.

Mr Purnomo said that Taylor bashed the officer with a mobile phone, yelling at him: “You have stolen the bag, you are a fake police. Where is my bag? Where is my bag? F**k you. Where is my bag? F**k police.”

“David found a bottle, he bashed the police with a bottle. David brought the bottle in his left hand then moved it to his right hand, then he bashed the bottle onto the police officer’s head. The bottle broke and then David bashed him again with the broken bottle. That caused many wounds in the head,” Mr Purnomo said. He also used the officer’s own binoculars to bash the victim.

He claimed that when Taylor was frisking the victim’s body, looking for the bag, Connor was also involved. He said it was Connor who took the wallet and also frisked the officer.

Mr Purnomo said that Taylor had told Connor the victim had passed out but was still conscious.

Connor and Taylor then left the beach and tried to get a motorbike taxi driver to take them to the police station but he refused because they were covered in blood and dirt. So the couple walked to their nearby hotel, washed the evidence and slept before checking out the next morning. At midday they returned to collect their luggage.

Both are suspects on murder charges which carry a maximum 15 years jail. They are yet to be officially charged, something which under Indonesian law will occur within 120 days, when prosecutors consider all the evidence.

Originally published as Connor accused of burning evidence