A WOULD-BE suicide bomber’s explosives failed to detonate during an attempted attack on a packed church in Indonesia.

A teenager, reportedly carrying a drawing of the ISIS flag, attacked a priest with an axe after the failed bid, reports The Sun.

A police spokesman said the teen left a bench and ran toward the priest at the altar, but homemade explosives only burned without detonating.

The motive for the attack at the Roman Catholic St. Yoseph Church in Medan, the capital of North Sumatra province, was not clear, but the perpetrator carried a symbol indicating support for the Islamic State group.

Before he was restrained by members of the congregation, the suspect managed to take an axe from his backpack and attack Priest Albert Pandiangan, causing a slight injury to the 60-year-old’s arm.

media_camera Indonesian antibomb squad carry an explosive from the Santo Yosef church after a man tried to attack a priest in Medan on August 28, 2016. Picture: AFP.

Local chief detective Nur Fallah said: “Somebody tried to kill the priest by pretending to attend the church service and at that time tried to explode something, like a firecracker, but the firecracker didn’t explode, it only fumed.”

The teenager reportedly carried a drawing of an ISIS flag and his ID card.

Ring Sari Ginting, a spokeswoman for Medan police, said: “A terrorism act was carried out on Sunday morning at the Saint Joseph catholic church.

media_camera Indonesian policemen examine the Santo Yosef church after a man tried to attack a priest in Medan on August 28, 2016. Picture: AFP.

“Police are interrogating the perpetrator ... and will search his house for any bomb-making materials.”

The suspect has reportedly told police he was not working alone.

Local media have reported that the teenager is believed to have met an unidentified man on the street before the attack.

National Counterterrorism Agency chief Comr. Gen. Suhardi Alius told local media outlet Beritasatu that the suspect is a “puppet”, too young to have planned the attack on his own.

Suhardi said: “Considering his young age, there has to be someone else who supports him. We are currently digging to seek his identity.”

media_camera Indonesian policemen guard a blindfolded suspect who attacked a priest in Medan on August 28, 2016. Picture: AFP.

The suspect reportedly wore a suicide vest and was carrying a knife, axe and a pipe bomb in his backpack.

An eyewitness, Markus Harianto Manullan, said: “He sat in the same row as I did ... I saw him fiddling with something in his jacket, and then I heard a small explosion and he immediately ran to the podium.”

Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim nation, has carried out a sustained crackdown on militant networks since the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people.

It comes after a priest was killed in France.

This story first appeared in The Sun.

Originally published as IS bomber hacks priest in church