JAKARTA, Indonesia - The anti-terrorism police in Indonesia killed three suspects in a gunfight on the outskirts of Jakarta on Wednesday.

The police said that they were successful in foiling a planned suicide bomb attack.

This is the latest in a series of raids being led by the police in the country in recent weeks.

The raids have targeted the rise in local militancy in the country.

Around 14 people have been interrogated over suicide bomb plots, including those that have targeted the presidential palace, the police confirmed in a statement.

Officials noted that a majority of these attacks have involved female suicide bombers.

Commenting on the recent attack that was foiled, the national police spokesperson, Rikwanto said, "The intention was for a suicide bomb."

He added, "During the raid, we tried to be careful but they threw something from inside the house and it was a bomb but it did not explode. Then they fired from inside.”

So far, according to him, one suspect has been arrested. Separately, police arrested three more people in similar raids in Sumatra and Batam.

The suspects were believed to be aiding militants and helping ethnic militant groups.

A fourth person was also arrested and led the police to the house used by the militants.

According to the police, around five bombs were discovered at the residence of these bombers.

H.E. Joko Widodo, President of Indonesia, has called on the public to be vigilant against the spread of radicalism.

He said, "We hope the public can also help fortify this country against terrorism and radicalism. Every year, Christmas and New Year's events are the target of terrorists to carry out amaliyah (Arabic for suicide bombing).”

Indonesia has suffered several major militant attacks in recent years.

The worst of such attacks occurred in 2002 when a bombing in Bali killed 202 people.

Indonesian authorities are worried about a resurgence in radicalism, somewhat inspired in part by the Islamic State.

Indonesian police have arrested dozens of suspected militants in recent months.

Many suspects from the most recent arrests have been found with military-grade explosives.

Police suspected they had been communicating with Bahrun Naim, an Indonesian militant known to be fighting with the Islamic State in Syria.