Police say suspects killed after gunfight broke out during raid in West Java

FILE PHOTO

By Ainur Rohmah

TUBAN, Indonesia

Two suspected militants were killed Sunday when a gunfight broke out while Indonesian anti-terror personnel were conducting a raid in West Java province, according to authorities.

National Police spokesman Rikwanto told Anadolu Agency that two other suspects had been arrested earlier in the morning on a road in Purwakarta city, and told police of a “hideout” at a hut on a nearby lake.

"At this second location, there were two people who fought back when they would have been arrested," said Rikwanto, who like many Indonesians uses one name.

He could not confirm whether the suspects were affiliated with Daesh or other networks inspired by the Middle East-based terror group.

Indonesia has been on high alert in past weeks with police arresting more than a dozen people accused of planning attacks on government buildings and police outposts around the Christmas and New Year holiday season.

On Wednesday, anti-terror police killed three suspected militants in a raid near Jakarta during which several bombs were recovered.

Police said the group was planning to stage a knife attack on police on New Year’s Eve before blowing up a police station with civilians inside.

Authorities have identified at least 20 of the suspects arrested since Dec. 10 -- including three women -- as members of the Jamaah Anshar Khilafah Daulah Nusantara (JAKDN) network led by Bahrun Naim, an Indonesian fighting with Daesh in Syria.

Naim is accused of having masterminded a fatal attack in Jakarta in January.

Indonesia has been on alert against extremist activities over the past year, further heightening security measures after the January attack left eight people, including four Daesh-linked suspects, dead in the capital.

In late November, police arrested a bomb-maker -- also accused of JAKDN membership -- on charges of planning bomb attacks on government buildings and the Myanmar embassy in Jakarta.