KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia will push for the Myanmar government to take measures to improve the condition of vulnerable communities, including the Rohingya Muslim minority.

Malaysia, which is hosting the extraordinary session of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Council of Foreign Ministers today, will also be calling on Myanmar to allow unimpeded access for huma­nitarian aid for the Rohingya.

Foreign Minister Datuk Seri Anifah Aman said the meeting will issue a resolution which, among others, expresses concern over the acts of violence and human rights abuses towards the people of Rohingya.

“There will also be a communique to be issued calling on Myanmar to abide by its obligations under international law and prevent the worsening humanitarian crisis in Rakhine State,” he told a press conference.

The meeting has been convened at Malaysia’s request to discuss the plight of the Rohingya.

Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak will deliver a keynote address at the one-day meeting.

The OIC secretariat in Jeddah issued a statement yesterday ma­­king similar calls to Myanmar with regard to humanitarian aid.

The OIC assistant secretary-general for political affairs, Abdul­lah Abdurrahman Alim, said tragic conditions and violent crimes endured by Muslims in Myanmar since the eruption of violence in 2012 have led to the exodus and displacement of over 2.5 million people around the world.

“Inside Myanmar, the number of displaced refugees among the Rohingya Muslims have exceeded 120,000 people and they are in dire need of emergency humanitarian relief,” he said.

Abdullah added that from Oct 9 last year to Jan 5, more than 65,000 Rohingyas have fled to Bangladesh.

Abdullah said OIC groups in New York, Geneva and Brussels have held a number of emergency meetings in December to discuss the ongoing crisis.

Meanwhile, Myanmar Ethnic Rohingya Human Rights Organi­sation Malaysia president Zafar Ahmad Abdul Ghani is calling on the OIC to pressure the United Nations to send its peacekeeping force to Myanmar to check human rights violations against the Rohingya civilians.

He claimed that the presence of UN peacekeepers would also indirectly stop the Rohingya community from seeking refuge in other countries.