AFP/Getty Images Kim Jong-nam expressed his agony in his final words before his death on Monday

Kim Jong-nam was assassinated in a lightning attack by two women while he queued at Malaysia’s Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Monday. In just five seconds, one distracted the 45-year-old before the other grabbed him around the neck and administered the poison that killed him, according to reports.

Kim staggered to an information desk, where he uttered his final words before collapsing. Police in Indonesia have claimed that Indonesian national Siti Aisyah – one of three people arrested by Malaysian police in connection with the death – was duped into thinking she was part of a comedyshow prank. Tija Liong Kiong, the father-in-law of the 25-year-old, denied she was involved in the attack. He said: “I was shocked to hear that she was arrested for murdering someone."

GETTY Kim was assassinated in a lightning attack by two women at Malaysia's International airport

Such an action was done three or four times and they were given a few dollars for it. Tito Karnavian, Indonesian police chief

I don’t believe that she will do such a crime or what the media says.” Hotel staff in Kuala Lumpur told how the woman with the slogan “LOL” (an internet acronym, meaning “laugh out loud”) on her shirt, Doan Thi Huong, had carried a large sum of cash, stayed in cheap hotels and cut her hair a day before the attack. Police believe she was the person who approached the Korean from behind and thrust the poisonous liquid in his face.

ENTERPRISE Two women are believed to have caused his death by administering him with poison

Indonesian police chief Tito Karnavian claimed Aisyah and another woman convinced men to close their eyes and sprayed them with water. He said: “Such an action was done three or four times and they were given a few dollars for it.

ENTERPRISE Siti Aisyah, 25, is believed to be one of the suspects

“With the last target, Kim Jong-nam, allegedly there were dangerous materials in the sprayer. Aisyah was not aware that it was an assassination attempt by alleged foreign agents.” North Korea yesterday said that it would “categorically reject” any post-mortem examination carried out by Malaysian officials.