Police were involved in a fierce gunfight with a suspected terrorist in Indonesia. A blast ripped through a government building in Bandung City, West Java, on Monday morning. Cops sent to investigate the explosion were drawn into a shoot out with a suspected attacker.

TWITTER STAND OFF: Police involved in a fire fight with suspected terrorists in Bandung, Indonesia

A man arrived at the government building on a motorbike and placed a homemade pressure cooker bomb on a table in a corner of the courtyard. After the explosion, the man ran into the government office and was later shot by police.

Indonesia police now saying Bandung explosion may be possible hostage situation inside government building — Adam Harvey (@adharves) February 27, 2017

TERROR in Indonesian bomb attack Armed police stormed a government building after a suspected suicide bomber launched an attack on a government building in Bandung, Indonesia 1 / 11 REUTERS An armed police officer points his weapon at the buildng

“The bomb squad is combing the area” Anton Charliyan The attacker was captured alive and a backpack was recovered. The bomb squad is combing the area for more bombs. A homemade bomb is thought to have caused the explosion, police say. Anton Charliyan, West Java police chief, said: "We have secured the firearm, the bomb squad has also secured a backpack. "The bomb squad is combing the area to see if there are more homemade bombs."

TWITTER/ADAM HARVEY FIRE FIGHT: Police involved in a shoot out with a suspected terrorist in Bandung

Bandung government building at centre of suspected terror attack is on fire. Unsure if hostages are inside. — Adam Harvey (@adharves) February 27, 2017

He added: "Situation is safe for now, but we must remain on alert and not underestimate things." An eyewitness named only as Alfran told local media: "A person who looks like the culprit has been taken into a car."

TWITTER SHOOT OUT: Police and the military were involved in the incident

Bandung police: the attacker allegedly going to be suicide bomber. Don't know yet what network he's linked to. Second attacker on the loose. — Adam Harvey (@adharves) February 27, 2017

Terror attacks 2016 We take a look at the terrorist attacks of 2016. 1 / 37 REUTERS A truck crashed into a Christmas market in Berlin killing at least 12 and injuring 48