Dureza receives report ASG beheaded German hostage 9 SHARES Share it! Share Tweet

By Nonoy E. Lacson

Zamboanga City— Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) extremists reportedly beheaded German national Juergen Gustav Kantner at 3:30 p.m. yesterday in Indanan, Sulu. Presidential Peace Adviser Jess Dureza said he, too, received the same report and that the military is already checking its veracity.

A highly-placed police source in Sulu said ASG Sub-leader Muammar Askali, alias “Abu Rami,” led the beheading of Kantner in the forested area of Sitio Talibang in Barangay Buanza, Indanan.

The police source said the ASG decided to behead Kantner after his family failed to pay them their ransom demand of P500 million in exchange of the freedom of the 70-year-old German.

The source said the body and head of Kantner have yet to be found, but police and other security forces are exerting their best effort to locate his remains.

As of press time last night, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) has kept mum on the reported beheading, but Secretary Dureza said the military was already in the process of validating the report.

“I got that too earlier,” Dureza said of the reported beheading of Kantner in a text message to The Manila Bulletin. “But I need official AFP validation. I will issue statement as soon as I got it.”

He added: “Col. Cirilito Sobejana, Joint Sulu Task Force commander, as of 8:30 p.m. Sundahy informed me by phone that validation efforts of such report is still ongoing… search and rescue operations are ongoing.”

The ASG kidnapped Kantner aboard his yacht in waters off Tanjong Luuk Pisuk, Sabah, Malaysia last November 6 and raped her woman companion, Sabina Wetch, before they shot her to death.

A few days ago the ASG threatened to behead Kantner at 3 p.m. of February 26, unless his relatives and the German government come up with their ransom demand of P500 million.

Earlier yesterday, Major General Carlito G. Galvez, Jr., commander of the AFP’s Western Mindanao Command (AFP-WestMinCom), said that with a “deadline or no deadline,” government troops are exerting all efforts and means to go after the ASG gunmen and rescue all their kidnap victims.

“Our troops are continuously conducting focused military operations to rescue the remaining hostages,” Galvez said.

Galvez said the ultimatum given for the execution of Kantner might be due to the shortness of their funds and the need for them to establish new hiding areas.

He said the WestMinCom, together with the local government units and the communities, is addressing the problem.

“We are calling for the people of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi for renewed cooperation in order to stop the un-Islamic and barbaric activities of the ASG particularly on the kidnapping of innocent civilians,” he said.

Tags: Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), Dureza receives report ASG beheaded German hostage, German national Juergen Gustav Kantner, Manila Bulletin, mb.com.ph, pay, police source, Presidential Peace Adviser Jess Dureza