The only North Korean arrested over the dramatic airport assassination of Kim Jong-Nam is to be freed, Malaysia said on Thursday, as a North Korea official claimed there's a strong indication that Kim Jong-Un's brother died of a heart attack.

The moves came the day after two young women appeared in court charged with murdering the estranged half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un with a banned nerve agent.

Despite Malaysian officials saying Kim Jong-Nam was poisoned, a North Korean official in Malaysia has claimed that there is a strong indication that he died of a heart attack.

Malaysian Attorney General Mohamed Apandi Ali said 47-year-old Ri Jong-Chol would be released on Friday.

North Korean Ri Jong-Chol (pictured) is to be released on Friday after Malaysian officials could not find sufficient evidence to charge in him connection to the assassination of Kim Jong-Nam.

Malaysian police speak about detained North Korean Ri Jong-Chol, who was suspected of having involvement in the assassination of Kim Jong-Nam, the half brother of leader Kim Jong-Un. His release comes just days after two women were charged with murder in the case

'He is a free man. His remand expires and there is insufficient evidence to charge him,' Apandi said. 'He has no proper [travel] documents so we will deport him.'

Seven other North Koreans are wanted in connection with the killing, including a diplomat and an airline employee who are believed to be in Malaysia.

Four others are thought to have fled to Pyongyang on the day of the murder.

Ri was arrested days after Kim suffered an agonising death when he was attacked at Kuala Lumpur International Airport as he waited to board a flight to Macau on February 13.

CCTV footage shows two women approaching the heavyset 45-year-old and appearing to thrust a cloth in his face.

Police say he suffered a seizure and died less than 20 minutes later, without reaching hospital.

Swabs of the dead man's face revealed traces of the VX nerve agent, a synthetic chemical so deadly that it is classed as a weapon of mass destruction.

Seven other North Koreans are wanted in connection with the killing, including a diplomat and an airline employee who are believed to be in Malaysia

Indonesian suspect Siti Aisyah, center, is escorted by police officers as she arrives at Sepang court in Sepang, Malaysia on Wednesday. She was charged with murder, and if found guilty, she could be hanged

Vietnamese suspect Doan Thi Huong (left) leaves court after being charged with the murder of Kim Jong-Nam. She could also be hanged if she is found guilty

Indonesian Siti Aisyah, 25, and Doan Thi Huong, 28, from Vietnam, were charged with murder on Wednesday. If found guilty, they could be hanged.

Siti, wearing a red T-shirt, was brought in first to hear the murder charge read out before being taken away. Huong, also dressed casually, then heard the charge in Vietnamese.

Huong's lawyer S. Selvam said she told the court in Vietnamese: 'I am not guilty.'

Neither woman was asked to enter a plea and their trial is not expected to begin for several months.

However, after hearing the charge, Huong's lawyer S. Selvam said she told the court in Vietnamese: 'I am not guilty.'

Selvam added his client was 'nervous as she is facing a murder charge'.

Both women say they thought they were taking part in a prank video but police have dismissed the claims.

Huong was caught on CCTV walking through the airport wearing a T-shirt with 'LOL' written on the front.

Facing their fate: Siti Aisyah, left, is escorted by police officers out of Sepang court and Doan Thi Huong leaves, right

A heavy armed police presence surrounded the women in court on Wednesday

Huong is escorted for Sepang Magistrate Court after the hearing on Wednesday. The women maintain their innocence in the case

They appeared to be wearing bulletproof vests as they were escorted from the building, with Huong looking tired as she was lead away.

South Korea has consistently pointed the finger of blame at North Korea, citing what they say was a standing order from Kim Jong-Un to kill his exiled half-brother.

Pyongyang - which has never acknowledged Kim's identity - has denied the charge and disputes the autopsy, claiming Malaysia is in cahoots with its enemies.

Kim Jong-nam (seen above in 2001) died on February 13 and police say a nerve agent was found on his face

The two countries, which had enjoyed relatively warm relations, have been at diplomatic daggers drawn since the killing.

On Thursday Kuala Lumpur, which had earlier recalled its ambassador, said it was cancelling its visa-free travel deal with Pyongyang.

The government was implementing the change on the grounds of national security, Malaysian news agency Bernama quoted deputy prime minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi as saying.

The cancellation will take effect on March 6, after which North Koreans entering Malaysia will be required to obtain a visa, the report added.

'We are not looking for enemies but if they use Malaysia as a platform to carry out their agenda, they should not accuse Malaysia and tarnish our image on the international diplomatic front.' Ahmad Zahid told a public event.

'We will act firmly to guarantee the safety of the people. Do not think you can use Malaysia to do what you want to do. Do not use Malaysia to carry out your illegal activities,' he added.

Doan Thi Huong was captured walking through the airport on CCTV wearing a LOL T-shirt on the day Kim Jong-Nam was killed

Shocking pictures show Kim Jong-nam slumped in a chair having been poisoned. He later died on his way to the hospital

Malaysia was one of only a tiny handful of countries around the world that had such a visa waiver scheme with North Korea.

A senior Malaysian official told AFP that the government was mulling further 'downgrading diplomatic ties' with North Korea.

'Malaysia is considering shutting down its mission in Pyongyang,' he said, as well as the expulsion of the North Korean ambassador following his 'baseless allegations', a reference to accusations of bias in the murder probe.

Malaysia formally established diplomatic relations with North Korea in 1973 and opened an embassy in Pyongyang in 2003.

It has provided a channel between Pyongyang and the wider world in recent years, with Kuala Lumpur serving as a discreet meeting place for talks between the regime and the United States.

Up to 1,000 North Koreans currently work in Malaysia and, like expats worldwide, their remittances are a valuable source of foreign currency for the isolated regime.

It is not clear how widely known Kim's fate is at home, but on Thursday South Korean activists said they will send millions of leaflets about his murder across the border by balloon.

They said the text on them would describe the North's leader as 'a devil who killed his own brother'.