News of the day from across the nation, March 15

1 Nude photos: The top U.S. Marine says he intends to fix the problem that led to current and former Corps members sharing nude photos of female Marines online and making lewd or threatening comments about them. Angry and skeptical senators are saying the military hasn’t done enough. Gen. Robert Neller, the Marine Corps commandant, tells the Senate Armed Services Committee that he will hold Marines accountable. He says changes have to be made in the Marine Corps culture, where some male Marines don’t accept women in the ranks. Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen from New Hampshire says military leaders have pledged to correct sexual abuse and harassment problems before and haven’t done so yet.

2 Tenant dispute: A Wisconsin appeals court says a white landlord had the right to kick a tenant out of his house because he is black. Michael Haller forced Martin Jones to move out of his home in Milwaukee’s Bay View neighborhood in 2013 after Haller’s wife said she didn’t feel comfortable with an African American living in their house. Wisconsin law prohibits landlords from discriminating against tenants based on race. But the First District Court of Appeals ruled Tuesday that the law doesn’t apply in this case because Jones was renting a bedroom in Haller’s house rather than a separate dwelling unit.

3 Tax-exempt hate: The federal government revoked the tax-exempt status of a group run by a prominent white nationalist group for its failure to file tax returns. Internal Revenue Service records show that Richard Spencer’s National Policy Institute, which used a Whitefish, Mont., post office box as its address, lost its tax-exempt status as a nonprofit because it failed to file tax returns for three consecutive years. Spencer popularized the term “alt-right” and is a leading figure in a fringe movement that has been described as a mix of racism, white nationalism and populism.

4 Texas execution: Texas put to death on Tuesday a man convicted of the 1987 killings of a father and his infant sonand who three years later at his capital murder trial grabbed a loaded gun from a drawer in the courtroom and tried to attack the judge. . Strapped to the death chamber gurney, James Bigby, 61, looked directly at six relatives of his victims watching through a window a few feet from him and repeatedly said he was sorry.

5 Navy scandal: A retired Navy admiral was among nine high-ranking military officers arrested Tuesday across the country in a burgeoning bribery scandal involving a Malaysian defense contractor nicknamed “Fat Leonard.” The indictment unsealed in federal court in San Diego alleged that retired Adm. Bruce Loveless and the other officers accepted the services of prostitutes, lavish meals and fancy trips from Leonard Francis in exchange for classified information that helped his company, Glenn Defense Marine Asia. It was the latest indictment in the 3-year-old case that has charged more than 20 former or current Navy officials so far.

Chronicle News Services