KUALA LUMPUR: The latest terrorist attacks in several districts in Thailand, Jakarta in Indonesia and clashes in Mindanao, the Philippines, are related to the killing of the South-East Asian Islamic State (IS) coordinator Mohammad Wanndy Mohamed Jedi in Syria last March, say Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi.

He said this was the finding of the study carried out by intelligence agencies, which also discovered the existence of the Katibah Nusantara network (the Malay-speaking wing of IS) by the IS for those who became terrorists in this region.

“What happened in southern Thailand, Jakarta and Mindanao was that the intelligence agencies found there was a link to the killing of Wanndy, who was previously a Katibah Nusantara coordinator,” he told journalists after launching the Open Data Big Splash programme at Universiti Malaya yesterday.

Thus, he said, the police via the anti-terrorism unit, have boosted their preparedness to prevent terrorism acts to the highest level, especially as the country was getting ready to host the SEA Games and Asean Para Games in August and September.

Dr Ahmad Zahid, who is also the Home Minister, urged the people to place their full confidence in the police and other enforcement agencies on this issue.

He said such incidents as well as the bomb attack in Manchester could happen in Malaysia if the people became “complacent” in this matter.

“I also call on the people not to take the matter lightly.

“Bombings can occur at any time, anywhere in the world and Malaysia is not excluded, and (possibly) will experience such an incident if the people are not careful and only leave it to the enforcement agencies to be prepared,” he added.

He said that cooperation between the Government’s enforcement agencies with foreign agencies such as Aseanapol was also being boosted to track down and monitor the movements of the terrorists.

Thailand has experienced several bombings.

The latest incident occurred at the Bangkok Hospital last Monday and injured 20 people, while east Jakarta was shaken by a bomb attack which killed at least two people on Wednesday.

Last Tuesday, the Philippine government enforced martial law after bloody clashes between government forces and IS-linked militants in Marawi town. — Bernama