Philippine airstrikes aimed at Islamist militants who are holding hostages as human shields in a southern city killed 11 soldiers, authorities said on Thursday, as they conceded hundreds of gunmen may have escaped a blockade.

The friendly fire deaths bring the number of people reported killed to 171 since gunmen waving black flags of the Islamic State (IS) group began rampaging through the city of Marawi last week.

Shortly after the violence erupted President Rodrigo Duterte imposed martial law across the southern region of Mindanao, home to 20million people, to quell what he said was an IS bid to establish a base in the mainly Catholic Philippines.

But the government's narrative of being in 'full control' of Marawi took a hit Thursday when defence chiefs said 11 soldiers were killed in a misguided bombing mission.

Smoke billowing from a burning building is seen as government troops continue their assault on insurgents from the IS group, who have taken over large parts of Marawi City

Smoke rises from a fire after an air strike inside the conflict area as fighting between Islamist militants and government forces continues in Marawi city, Mindanao island on Thursday

Government soldiers are seen on a military truck as they continue their assault on insurgents from IS militants

The government's narrative of being in 'full control' of Marawi took a hit Thursday when defence chiefs said 11 soldiers were killed in a misguided bombing mission

Armoured Personnel Carrier rides along the main street during the ongoing assault of government troops on insurgents from the Maute group, who have taken over large parts of Marawi City

'It's very painful. It's very sad to be hitting our own troops,' Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana told reporters in Manila. 'It's sad but sometimes it happens in the fog of war.'

He initially said ten soldiers died but national military spokesman Brigadier-General Restituto Padilla later confirmed 11 were killed.

Lorenzana also warned that many militants may have escaped, despite checkpoints throughout the city and surrounding it.

'We have reports they are going to some of the towns around Marawi city,' Lorenzana said.

He said there were about 500 militants at the start of the unrest and only between 50 and 100 were believed to still be in Marawi.

According to the military, 120 gunmen have been killed, meaning as many as 330 remain unaccounted for and could have slipped out of the city.

A Filipino government troop apprehends a person spotted inside the conflict area as fighting between Islamist militants and government forces continues in Marawi City, Mindanao Island, southern Philippines on Thursday

Shortly after the violence erupted President Rodrigo Duterte imposed martial law across the southern region of Mindanao, home to 20million people, to quell what he said was an IS bid to establish a base in the mainly Catholic Philippines

The friendly fire deaths bring the number of people reported killed to 171 since gunmen waving black flags of the Islamic State (IS) group began rampaging through the city of Marawi last week. Pictured above, rescuers and government soldiers search for residents in the city

Adding to concerns about the rising threat of IS, Lorenzana said militants from Saudi Arabia, Chechnya, Yemen, Malaysia and Indonesia were among the dead

The gunmen are also holding hostages, some of whom have been forced to speak on propaganda videos for the militants calling for troops to withdraw. Pictured above, overnment soldiers carry out a patrol as they continue their assault on insurgents

Marines board a transport plane in Manila, Philippines, on Wednesday to deploy for Marawi

Adding to concerns about the rising threat of IS, Lorenzana said militants from Saudi Arabia, Chechnya, Yemen, Malaysia and Indonesia were among the dead.

The military has relentlessly dropped bombs and fired rockets at the militants, who have been hiding in residential areas of Marawi where local authorities believe about 2,000 people are trapped.

The gunmen are also holding hostages, some of whom have been forced to speak on propaganda videos for the militants calling for troops to withdraw.

A priest, filmed in front of a war-scarred building, said he is being held with 200 other captives including children.

In the video apparently taken under duress by militants, Father Teresito Suganob said his captors wanted the military to withdraw its forces from Marawi, where Islamic militants still hold pockets of territory after a week of gunbattles with the army.

A colleague of Suganob confirmed the man in the video is the priest.

It was not clear when the video was taken or who released it online, and whether Suganob believed what he was saying or was forced to say it.

President Rodrigo Duterte (left) has declared martial law in the Philippines. Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana (right) warned that many militants may have escaped the city into neighboring towns

Filipino government troops apprehend two males spotted inside the conflict area as fighting between Islamist militants and government forces

Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said there were about 500 militants at the start of the unrest and only between 50 and 100 were believed to still be in Marawi

According to the military, 120 gunmen have been killed, meaning as many as 330 remain unaccounted for and could have slipped out of the city. Pictured above, Filipino government troops apprehend two persons spotted inside the conflict

Lorenzana also warned that many militants may have escaped, despite checkpoints throughout the city and surrounding it. Pictured above, ilipino government troops apprehend two males spotted inside the conflict area

Suganob, standing in front of debris and partially burned buildings, said: 'We want to live another day, we want to live another month,'Directing his remarks to Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte.

'We want to live few years and in your generosity, Mr President, in your heart, we know you can make something happen.'

Marawi Bishop Edwin de la Pena confirmed that it was Suganob in the video.

Suganob said in the video that he was taken prisoner along with a professor from Mindanao State University, two female church workers and seven teachers.

'Along with us are about 200 carpenters, household helpers, children and youth, and ordinary Christian settlers,' he said.

Local authorities have repeatedly warned that the trapped residents and hostages are in grave danger of being killed in the air assaults, and on Thursday repeated calls for them to end.'

'We continuously appeal to the chain of command... to refrain from using airstrikes,' Zia Alonto Adiong, a local politician and spokesman for the provincial crisis management committee, told reporters in Marawi.

A Philippine Marine guards the display of high-powered firearms, ammunitions, uniforms and black ISIS-style flags which were recovered from Muslim militants on Tuesday

A Philippine Marine guards communication equipment, high-powered firearms, including a 50-caliber machinegun, ammunitions, uniforms, and black ISIS-style flags Tuesday, May 30, 2017 in Marawi city southern Philippines

Philippine Marine Major Rowan Rimas holds one of several high-powered firearms, which were recovered by Government forces in the fighting against Muslim militants

Communications devices, rifles, grenade launchers, assault rifles and ammunition belonging to ISIS laid out on a table having been confiscated

Philippine soldiers walk past Islamic State group graffiti in Marawi on the southern island of Mindanao

A government soldier points to graffiti on some metal shutters which reads, 'Welcome ISIS,' with a crown painted over it

The International Committee of the Red Cross on Wednesday called for a humanitarian ceasefire.

Lorenzana said airstrikes may be curtailed because of the friendly fire incident, but military spokesman Padilla insisted the soldiers' deaths would not weaken the resolve of the armed forces.

'We will be unrelenting in the pursuit of our mission. The drive, resolve of every AFP (Armed Forces of the Philippines) personnel in the air, ground and water remain undiminished,' Padilla told reporters.

'We will incessantly push our way forward to retake the remaining part of Marawi and liberate the people that the terrorists continue to use as human shields.'

The militants have murdered 19 civilians, the military has said, while insisting none have died in any air assaults or the intense street-to-street battles.

Thirty-two soldiers and police officers have been confirmed killed.

The clashes erupted when security forces raided a house to arrest Isnilon Hapilon, a veteran Filipino militant regarded as IS's leader in the Philippines. He is on the US government's list of most-wanted terrorists.

Trapped Filipino villagers are escorted by government troops during a rescue operation as fighting between Islamist militants and government forces continues in Marawi city, Mindanao island, southern Philippines

In the video apparently taken under duress by militants, Father Teresito Suganob said his captors wanted the military to withdraw its forces from Marawi, where Islamic militants still hold pockets of territory after a week of gunbattles with the army

A government soldier carries a boy who was rescues along with twenty other residents as the government troops continue to assault the Maute group in Marawi city, Philippines

Philippines

Authorities said they were taken by surprise when many gunmen emerged to protect Hapilon and then went on a rampage through Marawi, which has a population of 200,000.

The militants mostly belonged to a local group called the Maute, and the infamous Abu Sayyaf kidnap-for-ransom gang that Hapilon has helped lead for many years.

A Muslim separatist rebellion in the southern Philippines has killed more than 120,000 people since the 1970s.

The main Muslim rebel groups have signed accords with the government aimed at forging lasting peace, giving up their separatist ambitions in return for autonomy.

The Maute, the Abu Sayyaf and other hardline groups have rejected the peace process.

The fighters' support network in Marawi remains unclear, though the power of one militant group - the Mautes - has grown in recent years.

Led by members of the city's Maute clan, the group has become increasingly active across Lanao del Sur province, where Marawi is located, and has been instrumental in the fighting this past week.