VICTIMS of the Bali bombing have reacted with anger and confusion after alleged mastermind Hambali was charged over the atrocity, 15 years after it occurred.

A US war court has charged Riduan “Hambali” Isomuddi over the Bali atrocity that killed 202 people and the attack on the J W Marriott Hotel in Jakarta in 2003.

Tumini, a Muslim was a bartender at Paddy’s Bar when the bombers struck and suffered burns to her entire body called for Hambali to receive the death penalty like his fellow plotters.

“I thought that he has been charged. It is almost 15 years after that incident,” she said.

“As a victim, I understand that we should forgive every human being.

“However, because their act is extremely heinous, and killed hundreds of people. I want a worthy sentence that is appropriate with his act.

media_camera Tumini survived the Bali bombings. Picture: AFP

“He has killed many people, he made many people get hurt, he has to feel that also,”

Another victim Gatot Huda Susanto said: “I don’t understand how the legal process works in the US.

“He should get the same as the trio of bombers, the masterminds of the Bali bombing who were sentenced to death.

“As Hambali is the brains, so at least he should get the same sentence. The death sentence is deserved for him,”

“As he is the mastermind, he could do the same thing in the future.”

Gatot Huda Susanto didn’t believe Hambali’s claims that he didn’t believe so many people would die.

“In the trial of Imam Samudera and other bombing perpetrators, they said the same thing. It is only their excuse to get a lenient sentence. If they get a life sentence, for example, they can still spread their doctrine. They are smart people that know the legal process. They hope that it will be considered by judge to give lenient sentence,”

“It just doesn’t make sense that he feels surprised.”

media_camera Forensic police officers at the scene of Sari Club nightclub blast in Kuta in October 2002.

AUSTRALIA WELCOMES DECISION

AUSTRALIA will do whatever it can to help bring alleged Bali bomber Hambali to justice but will not advocate the death penalty, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says.

Ms Bishop has welcomed a US decision to prosecute the accused architect of the 2002 Bali bombing.

Three Australians were among 12 people killed in that car bombing.

“Australia will provide whatever assistance we can,” Ms Bishop said Saturday.

“We must never forget that 88 Australians, mostly tourists in Bali, were murdered when Islamist terrorists took their lives in a brutal terrorist attack.”

.

media_camera Terror suspect Hambali has been charged over the 2002 Bali bombings. Picture: AP

RELATED: Suspected Bali bombings mastermind loses freedom bid

She hoped a successful prosecution could bring closure for the families of victims of Bali, which was the largest loss of Australian lives in a terror attack.

“It has been a scar on the hearts of all Australians since these attacks occurred in 2002,” Ms Bishop said.

She said Hambali would be tried under US laws and processes, which could include the death penalty, although Australia was opposed to capital punishment both at home and abroad.

Deputy Opposition Leader Tanya Plibersek also welcomed the US decision.

“I hope he faces the full force of justice. That was a shocking attack on civilians just out having a good time and I’m very pleased to see that he will be facing court,” she said on Saturday.

According to court documents obtained by The Associated Press, an Indonesian detainee at Guantánamo Bay known as Hambali also was charged in connection with an attack on Bali and the one on the J.W. Marriott in Jakarta in 2003.

According to rules of the US military commission, a military court will later decide whether a trial will be held.

media_camera 88 Australians were killed in the 2002 Bali bombings. Picture: Supplied

A suicide bomber blew himself up inside a nightclub jammed with tourists at a popular beach, killing many instantly and forcing others to run outside. Another suicide bomber detonated a massive bomb loaded in a car parked on the street in front of two clubs.

In the second bombing in 2003, the JW Marriott Hotel was targeted because the building was conducive to the type of bomb that was being constructed.

The perpetrators believed there would be a large American presence at the hotel and they “believed it would have the biggest overall impact,” the charging documents said. The Aug. 5, 2003, car bomb in front of the hotel in Jakarta killed 12 people and wounded 150.

Late last year, a US government review board rejected the release of Hambali, saying he continues to be a “significant threat to the security of the United States.” Hambali appeared before the board in August by video link, seeking his release after being held 10 years at the base without charge. The Pentagon described him in a profile released ahead of the hearing as a leader of a Southeast Asia-based extremist group known as Jemaah Islamiah. Hambali also is alleged to have had links to al-Qaeda.

Hambali has been charged with murder and attempted murder in violation of the law of war; intentionally causing serious bodily injury; terrorism; attacking civilians; and related charges.

Originally published as Death ‘worthy’ for Bali bombing accused