A+ A-

KINI ROUNDUP | Here are the key headlines you may have missed yesterday, in brief.

Dr M flirts with contesting in Pekan

Former prime minister Dr Mahathir Mohamad said he may have to contest in Pekan if Pakatan Harapan does not have any suitable candidates to take on Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak in the constituency.

Mahathir, who is also Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) chairperson, said his party cannot offer to let DAP contest under its logo as Bersatu must remain a "Malay party" to appeal to the Malay electorate, which he claimed was still "communal" in its outlook.

DAP secretary-general Lim Guan Eng confirmed that the party will hold a re-election to safeguard itself, but said there were also plans to sue the Registrar of Societies (ROS) for its instruction, which he claimed was based on "fake news".

Kit Siang explains absence in Harapan lineup

DAP parliamentary leader Lim Kit Siang explained that his absence in the Pakatan Harapan lineup was to make way for youths.

Pakatan Harapan is expected to submit its registration to the ROS next week after finalising its constitution.

Serdang MP Ong Kian Ming said the Election Commission's (EC) admission that it had destroyed the electoral rolls used in the 1994 and 2003 redelineation exercise may work against it when the Kuala Lumpur High Court hears the Selangor government's redelineation challenge.

PKR's Lembah Pantai MP Nurul Izzah Anwar said the government's failure to respond to a motion on 1MDB introduced by a Labour MP in the UK House of Commons puts Malaysia in a bad light.

Umno secretary-general Tengku Adnan Tengku Mansor dismissed former minister Zaid Ibrahim as a "disappointed man" after the latter predicted that Najib will refuse to debate Mahathir in an upcoming Bersatu Youth event.

FGV denies conspiracy

Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd (FGV) denied the Special Affairs Department's claim that there was a conspiracy against the company's chief executive officer Zakaria Arshad.

The National Union of Flight Attendants Malaysia (Nufam) questioned how much Malaysia Airlines Bhd had spent on its sponsorship of Liverpool FC, pointing out that its staff have not had a raise in three years.

Other Kini bites

Deputy Home Minister Nur Jazlan Mohamed claimed Al Jazeera's exposé on corruption in the Malaysian migrant labour industry was “old news” that the government had already addressed.

Chief justice Md Raus Sharif was awarded the title of 'datuk seri utama' while national laureate A Samad Said was awarded the title "Datuk Seri" in conjunction with the Penang governor's birthday.

Two former real estate executives who were arrested as part of the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission's (MACC) investigation into Felda's purchase of a London hotel were remanded for six days.

Mahathir claimed the controversial extensions of service for Md Raus Sharif as chief justice and Zulkefli Ahmad Makinudin as Court of Appeal president have "all the earmarks of favouritism".

Indonesia president Joko Widodo has urged local authorities to shoot drug traffickers.

Looking ahead

Prime Minister Najib Abdul Razak will be attending a gathering of Felda settlers in Putrajaya.

Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi will be officiating a delegates’ meeting for the Bukit Bintang and Setiawangsa Umno divisions.