KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia will begin on Oct 2 the trial of two women accused of the dramatic killing of the estranged half-brother of North Korea’s leader, the Shah Alam High Court said today.

Indonesian Siti Aisyah, 25, and Doan Thi Huong, 28, from Vietnam, are charged with murdering Kim Jong Nam at Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 (klia2) on Feb 13 by smearing his face with VX, a chemical the United Nations describes as a weapon of mass destruction.

Appearing at the Shah Alam High Court on the outskirts of the capital, Kuala Lumpur, both women were handcuffed and wearing bullet-proof vests over Malay traditional costume, consisting of a floor-length skirt and a blouse.

“We will start in October,” said judge Azmi Ariffin.

“The hearing has been fixed for the second.”

Both cases would be tried jointly, with pleas taken at the first hearing, he added.

If convicted, the women could face the death penalty.

Doan smiled during the hearing, but Siti was in tears afterwards, with her lawyers seen trying to calm her.

Defence lawyers warned previously that they feared “trial by ambush”, with police not sharing evidence.

Deputy public prosecutor Iskandar Ahmad said the prosecution had given a further 33 documents and CCTV recordings to the defence, and would call between 30 and 40 witnesses, depending on the progress of the trial.

“Having seen the CCTV recordings, I hope the judge will have a better understanding of how the situation took place,” said Gooi Soon Seng, Siti’s lawyer, adding that he had asked for a visit to the crime scene during the trial.

Jong Nam was the eldest son of the late North Korean leader Kim Jong Il. His half-brother, Kim Jong Un, became North Korean leader when their father died in 2011.

US and South Korean officials say the North Korean regime was behind the murder of Jong Nam, who lived in exile in Macau and had criticised his family’s dynastic rule of North Korea.

North Korea has refused to accept the dead man was Jong Un’s half-brother, and suggests that he died of a heart attack.

Siti and Huong have told diplomats from their countries that they believed they were participating in a reality television show prank when they assaulted Jong Nam.



