BALI’s rumbling Mount Agung volcano has begun spewing ash and steam, after months of intensive monitoring and extensive local evacuations. However, according to authorities the alert level, which was recently lowered to the second-highest warning level, remains unchanged.

The eruption was confirmed by the Volcanology and Geological Disaster Mitigation Centre.

“Already, it’s already erupted,” PVMBG head, I Gede Suantika, said.

“There is already ash fall,” Suantika said.

MORE: Mount Agung erupts: What it means for Australian travellers

media_camera Mount Agung volcano spews steam and smoke into the air. Picture: AFP

National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said the minor eruption began at about 5pm local time (8.05pm AEDT) and the plume rose about 700 metres from the volcano.

“Smoke is observed with medium pressure with a thick grey colour and with a maximum height of about 700m above the peak,” local authorities said.

Volcanologists say the eruption was caused by magma heating water, which is called a phreatic eruption, rather than a generally more dangerous eruption of magma itself, Mr Nugroho said.

He said there hasn’t been an increase in seismic tremors from the volcano. An escalation in tremors can indicate magma is rising inside the mountain.

However, Mr Nugroho said people should stay out of an exclusion zone that in places extends 7.5 kilometers (4.5 miles) from the volcano.

More than 140,000 people evacuated the region around the volcano when it was on high alert, though authorities urged some to return home who had left areas not in the official danger zone.

The number of evacuees dropped to about 30,000 after the alert level was lowered.

Locals are being urged to remain calm and not to panic.

Indonesia’s National Disaster Management Agency said the eruption remained small so far but the volcano was emitting a thick grey ash cloud blowing to the east and south-east.

media_camera People gather as they wait their transport to a temporary shelter at Sibetan village in September in Bali after Mount Agung started rumbling. Picture: Getty

Nearly 1600 people died when Agung last erupted in 1963, but officials said that the rumblings did not pose an immediate threat to those living in its shadow.

Agung has been rumbling intermittently since August.

The alert level remains at three after it was downgraded from the maximum level of four on October 29.

“At this point this is very, very small,” tweeted New Zealand volcanologist Dr Janine Krippner. “Right now this is not a serious eruption but of course this can change,” she said.

#Agung is not spewing, people are not panicked. At this time the eruption is small and everyone should be encouraged to stay calm, be alert, and watch official information sources. https://t.co/VIw6j5HRUR — Dr Janine Krippner (@janinekrippner) November 21, 2017

“Time to make sure you are prepared and keep an eye on official Agung information,” Dr Krippner said.

Bali’s Ngurah Rai International Airport remains open.

Officials estimated concerns about an eruption over the past few months had cost Bali at least $110 million in lost tourism and productivity as many local residents moved to shelters.

media_camera Mount Agung is popular tourist hiking route and highest active volcano on Bali island, Indonesia. Picture: Supplied

Indonesia is home to around 130 volcanoes due to its position on the “Ring of Fire”, a belt of tectonic plate boundaries circling the Pacific Ocean where frequent seismic activity occurs.

In 2010 Mount Merapi - considered one of the most active and dangerous volcanoes in the world - erupted, killing some more than 300 people and forcing 280,000 people to flee.

Mount Sinabung on Sumatra island - which is currently also at its highest alert level - has been active since 2013.

Originally published as Bali’s Mount Agung erupts