The 2014 edition of Pimex welcomed around 4,000 visitors, with local expats, Bangkok Thais, regional visitors and high-net-worth prospective buyers making up the majority of visitors from 49 nationalities, with Russians, Europeans and Thais strongly represented.



By The Phuket News

Wednesday 7 January 2015, 02:00PM

The star of the Princess yachts South East Asia display at Pimex – the agile and gracefully elegant Princess 88.

As in recent years the 2015 show is well supported by luxury brands, high class property and top end autos. Pimex organisers are delighted to confirm two luxury car brands at the show.

Rolls-Royce Motor Cars are set to exhibit the iconic Phantom and Wraith models in the hall and in Town Square.

Aston Martin will also be exhibiting their latest models following in the footsteps of the legendary DB5. Aston Martin has been the featured car of choice for fictional superspy James Bond since 1964 and has appeared in nine films to date.

Among the luxury entries, Princess Yachts South East Asia have confirmed a line-up of no fewer than six models ranging from the Princess 42 to the star of their display: the recently delivered Princess 88, exhibited for the first time in Thailand. Princess Yachts are currently one of the fastest growing brands in South East Asia.

On display at Pimex, The Princess 42, an iconic Princess model, is often considered the ideal family cruiser combining sea-keeping with strong performance while featuring class-leading interior space for elegant entertaining.

Princess Yachts have been quietly reviewing the rules of luxury cruising since 1965 and the Princess 52 which will also be on display is a perfect example of their Flybridge range. The steering is instinctive and light for a 54ft three-cabin boat. Coupled with the usual build excellence, the Princess 52 offers excellent value.

Also featured at Pimex, the Princess 60 Flybridge, a powerful and elegant cruiser, delivering an incredible onboard experience. Following her 2014 update, she is one of the most exciting and accommodating craft on the water.

The Princess 64 is also very inviting with her sleek and sporty profile concealing a spacious four-cabin motor yacht, or you might prefer to visit the Princess 72, the ultimate cruiser, with her timeless style and inspiring performance.

Last but not least, be sure to see – and admire – the Princess 88 which epitomises everything that is Princess. Powerful, agile and gracefully elegant she has been designed for long-range cruising. In every sense, the Princess 88 Motor Yacht bridges the gap between flybridge cruiser and Superyacht, for a world class on-water experience.

Meet the Princess Yachts South East Asia team; they will be there to answer all your enquiries and are available to show you the exquisite interiors of the Princess Yachts on display. Or call Alister Brunskill (+66 80 886 4945) or Adam Essex (+66 98 031 2757), or visit www.princessyachtssea.com/

Should you decide to charter one of the Princesses while in Phuket for a one-day outing for just the two of you, or with your family and friends, then Rico Stapel is the man to get hold of to discuss a tailor-made cruise.

You can call all Rico at +66 (0) 86 690 0444 or email rico@princessyachtssea.com