

Search News Archive : Fast Travel News Promotion Via Search, Social Media + Email Follow Us On : THE AJMAN PALACE HOTEL DISHES OUT NEW MENUS Industry: Hotels

So what's on the menu at The Ajman Palace Hotel in 2015? Plenty of exciting new dishes as the hotel works up your appetite with irresistible new menus across its dining outlets including room-service.



(TRAVPR.COM) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES - January 12th, 2015 - So what's on the menu at The Ajman Palace Hotel in 2015? Plenty of exciting new dishes as the hotel works up your appetite with irresistible new menus across its dining outlets including room-service. While the perennial favourites have been retained, many new temptations have been added. Equally stunning is the presentation of food as well as the impeccable service.



Ferghal Purcell, General Manager, The Ajman Palace Hotel, said, 'With superb restaurant and lounge options, The Ajman Palace Hotel is a unique culinary destination. Whatever an individual's taste or style, we have got an exceptional dining experience waiting for our guests, a large number of whom are families. The new menus are quite inventive and carefully crafted by our culinary team to match the personality of each restaurant as well as the expectations of our guests. There is a lot more variety for families with emphasis on regional favourites. Every dish is a must-try and, highlights our chefs' creativity and expertise."



'Encore Bistro', with both indoor and al fresco sea-view terrace, is an all-day international restaurant. Open for breakfast, lunch and dinner, the outlet's menu is an interesting mix of international and Mediterranean dishes.



If Asian is what you crave, head to 'Dragon's Place' where you can savour the finest Asian fusion delicacies with emphasis on Japanese and Thai cuisine in a true far-eastern atmosphere. The restaurant features a sushi bar, a private Teppanyaki dining table and two private washitsu rooms with low floor seating. Along with the Japanese version of sushi, on the menu is the innovative 'Arabic Sushi' infused with Middle Eastern flavours. Enhancing the dining experience is the sunset terrace with beautiful pool and sea views as well as a private terrace with romantic views of the Arabian Gulf. It is the perfect spot for intimate soirees and private events for up to ten people.



On site is also a choice of cafes and lounges. Chill out at 'Nojoom Lounge' , the scenic rooftop shisha and snacks bar or revitalize yourself at 'Juice & Nutrition Bar'. Equally relaxing is 'H20 Lounge' by the pool with endless views of the Arabian Gulf or the welcoming 'Lobby Cafe'.



About The Ajman Palace Hotel

The Ajman Palace Hotel, managed by HMH – Hospitality Management Holdings, is a picturesque sanctuary of privileged perfection conveniently located 22 km from Dubai International Airport and 11 km from Sharjah International Airport. Set on a private beach, this alluring hideaway is a heritage resort with a modern spirit. Bringing an unprecedented level of luxury, with captivating views of the Arabian Gulf, the resort is a destination unto itself. Balancing world-class facilities with the legendary Arabian hospitality, it offers 254 rooms, suites and serviced residences, a remarkable range of restaurants and lounges, fabulous meeting and event venues including the largest ballroom in the Northern Emirates ideal for weddings and conventions, as well as an array of leisure and recreation options at Encore Lifestyle Club featuring Encore Spa and state-of-the-art fitness facility. A magical experience awaits you here.



For more information about the hotel please visit http://www.TheAjmanPalace.com



For media contact:

Hina Bakht

Vice President

MPJ (Marketing Pro-Junction)

Mob: +971 50 697 5146

Email: h.bakht@mpj-pr.com

http://www.mpj-pr.com ### Please contact the person or company listed above for information regarding the content of this press release. TravPR.com are not the issuers of this press release and are not responsible for the accuracy of the content. Share Release :



CONTACT INFORMATION Name: Hina bakht Company: Marketing Pro Juction Phone: +971 50 6975146 Email: pressrelease@mpj-pr.com Web: PRESS RELEASE TAGS