Tower Club at lebua Eight-Course Dinner at the World’s Highest Alfresco Restaurant ComplementedBy Array of Amenities included in the Luxurious Romance Package

With its elegantly appointed suites, world-class amenities and spectacular views from Sirocco, one of the most romantic restaurants in Bangkok, if not the world, Tower Club at lebua offers guests an incomparably romantic backdrop for the Valentine’s Day celebration of their dreams. Located in the midst of Bangkok’s vibrant sightseeing, shopping and business districts, Tower Club at lebua invites couples to indulge all their senses with The Luxurious Romance Package.

The extravagance begins at the airport with round-trip transportation in a chauffeured BMW 7 Series. After indulging in a blissful in-suite couples massage, guests may journey to Sirocco for an eight-course Valentine’s dinner. The creative gourmet cuisine, including foie gras served with sea urchin, celeriac and vanilla-scented pear pearls, and Maine lobster served with broccoli cous-cous, garlic mousseline and Ossetra caviar, is elevated by the breathtaking city and river views. Following a romantic dinner, the celebration is made complete with a personalized bottle of Perrier-Jouët Blason Rosé Champagne and daily breakfast served on the suite’s private balcony.

The Luxurious Romance Package, available February 13 – 15, 2015, is priced at $2,398 per couple, exclusive of standard taxes and service charge. For reservations or more information, please contact reservations(at)lebua(dot)com, visit http://www.lebua.com/valentine15, or call +66 2 624 9555.

About Tower Club at lebua:

An executive all-club and all-suite hotel, Tower Club at lebua is located at the heart of Bangkok’s business and shopping areas, a short stroll from the venerable Chao Phraya River. Offering breathtaking views of Bangkok and the Chao Phraya River, spacious suites are well appointed with warm and contemporary décor accented by hardwood floors and honey beige and light brown furnishings to ensure a touch of luxury in every space. A collection of restaurants and bars atop its hotel, The Dome at lebua offers an exquisite selection of restaurants and bars from Mediterranean and Innovative European to Modern Asian cuisine, including: Sirocco, the world’s highest open air restaurant; Sky Bar, named “the most stunning rooftop bar you’ll ever see” by The New York Times; Breeze, highlighted by USA Today as one of the world’s “10 most cutting edge restaurants” in 2014; and Mezzaluna, honored as a “Foodie Top 100” fine dining mecca in 2013.

For more information, visit http://www.lebua.com or http://www.facebook.com/lebua, or follow @lebuahotels on Twitter or @lebuaHotelsResorts on Instagram.