@andymcginlay777 @Emirates frequent flyer has tattoo of airline on his arm and does some pretty neat flying http://t.co/rO9Ei7oHUh

It's never easy to get an airline upgrade, but for one Scottish teacher his ticket to $26,000 worth of luxury flying is a small tattoo.

Andy McGinlay, dubbed Emirates' best customer, found a way to ensure he has champagne and extra legroom on every flight - all he did was get an airline's logo tattooed onto his arm.

Since he cemented his love for the Gulf carrier in ink in 2013, he has received more than £13,000 (NZ$26,866) in free upgrades.



McGinlay, a 33-year-old English teacher, has been to 80 countries and is a loyal customer, flying with Emirates whenever possible over the last nine years.



But the tattoo has elevated him to a new level of loyalty flyer and his photo sits proudly on the wall of famous celebrities – alongside the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo and Michael Jackson – in the company's Dubai headquarters.



In the past 18 months he has enjoyed champagne in first class, received gifts, and invitations to the cockpit.

"My mum calls me a walking billboard for Emirates and my friends think I'm nuts - they just don't get my obsession" he said to Express.co.uk.

Some of his more jealous friends are less than impressed with his exploits.

"Last week I posted a picture on Facebook of my first-class boarding pass with a glass of Moet - and my friend commented 'I hope you choke'. That sums it up really."

Even before he got the tattoo he was being spoilt by Emirates - including a surprise 28th birthday party on board.

"As for my birthday party — I was flying Business Class from Dubai to Bangkok and the cabin crew saw it was my birthday from the date of birth on my passport.

"They invited me to their first-and-business-class bar and showered me with gifts, champagne and a chocolate cake. I felt like a rock star."

&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;

The chances of getting an airline upgrade are slim, but for those who are feeling bullish after reading of McGinlay's exploits, here are a few tricks other than getting a tattoo that you could try.