IS THIS the world’s worst driver?

Like a scene from a bad action movie, Thai police were forced to shoot out the tyres of a confused American tourist’s car following a 30-minute wrecking spree through Pattaya.

The 29-year-old woman damaged 13 vehicles and injured two motorcyclists after driving the wrong way down a busy street, police said.

Confused tourist's demolition derby

The crazy demolition derby began in Soi Siam Country Club in East Pattaya when the woman clipped a motorbike and reportedly refused to stop for police.

Pattaya One reported the tourist, identified by local media as Amanda or Samantha, sped off before driving the wrong way down Sukhumvit Road in heavy traffic.

media_camera Dazed and confused ... the driver (left) drove the wrong way down a busy street. Picture: YouTube/Note TuMBuNza

media_camera Demolition derby ... the driver crashed into 13 vehicles. Picture: YouTube/Note TuMBuNza

Footage shows the White Toyota Innova careening down a street before slamming into a bus, damaging the door, and hurtling sideways into stationary cars.

“It was a crazy bit of driving,” a police officer told the Phuket Wan Tourism News.

“The American woman struck a motorcycle going the wrong side down the road then kept going. She turned a corner and kept hitting other vehicles, 13 at last count.”

American woman smashes 13 vehicles on a 30min police chase against traffic in Pattaya http://t.co/oPOGOouNyS pic.twitter.com/OTLDBJQw0I — TODAY (@TODAYonline) April 6, 2015

Following a 30-minute police chase, officers shot three wheels of the woman’s car, bringing her to a stop.

But when she refused to open the car door, police broke the front passenger window.

The blonde woman was bundled into the back of a police car as an angry mob surrounded her, hurling abuse.

American girl wrecks 13 vehicles in Pattaya (VIDEO) http://t.co/6IxGqD6ejY pic.twitter.com/Cbx7OycL64 — Coconuts Bangkok (@CoconutsBangkok) April 7, 2015

Crazed American woman plays demolition derby in #Pattaya, smashed 13 cars in wrong-way chase. http://t.co/46wILeSDyd pic.twitter.com/OFOxbDL1u5 — Bob James (@NotThatBobJames) April 6, 2015

Pattaya One reported the woman received a hefty traffic fine.

She was also ordered to pay the medical expenses of the two injured motorcyclists and all vehicular damages.

She claimed she fled police because she panicked.

Originally published as Is this the worst driver ever?