A Sharadhaa By

QUEEN’S ROAD: He might come from a family of politicians, but Nikhil Kumaraswamy’s heart is set on an acting career.

And he is leaving no stone unturned to make his first film a success, more so because he’s debuting in Jaguar under his home banner. The muhurath for the film is on August 2, so in the meantime, he’s working with Mahadev, assistant of S S Rajamouli of Bahubali fame, on four short films to hone his skills.

Though H D Kumaraswamy wants his son’s foray into the film industry to be sooner than later, Nikhil himself is in no hurry.

“I want to prepare well, and short films help an actor grasp characterisation,” he told City Express. “I am even dubbing voice-overs.”

He, along with the team, will head to Bangkok next month to train under Kecha Khamphakdee, the coordinator of Jaika Stunt Team, who usually choreographs sequences for Telugu films. “I will be there for 25 days and will be making a short film based on fights,” he says. “All these short films put together have humour, seriousness and action sequences.”

Reports that had been floating around earlier said that Nikhil would make his debut under the direction of Tollywood’s Puri Jagannath. However the newbie confirms that Mahadev is the one that has been charged with the task.

The script has been penned by Rajamouli’s father K V Vijayendra Prasad, a name to be reckoned with in the Telugu film industry. “Working on a film he has scripted is an honour. My father read it and felt that Mahadev would be the perfect person to direct my debut. He was impressed by Rajamouli’s assistant’s work,” the actor says. “Moreover, Vijayendra Prasad treats Mahadev like a son.”

The stalwart screenwriter has also suggested that the film be made in Telugu as well. “It might even be dubbed in Tamil later. Language is no barrier when it comes to films, so I agreed,” he says.

However, his prime focus is Sandalwood and he hopes to get more audiences to flock to theatres.

A teaser of Jaguar will be released on the day of the muhurath, but full-fledged work on the project will only begin in September.

However, he will be handed the dialogues in a couple of weeks, after which he plans to start rehearsing. “I want to be ready before I perform in front of the senior artistes. Since my family is producing the film, I should value other artistes’ time,” he says.

Even as he has taken a plunge into the film world with conviction, he feels disheartened when he hears people speculating that he’s using movies as a stepping stone for politics. “My performance will speak better than any other attempt at clarification,” he says.

Nikhil has decided to make mostly entertainers and, sometimes, films with a social message.