KUALA LUMPUR, Aug 17, 2015:

Swiss national Xavier Andre Justo’s conviction in Thailand for alleged corporate espionage and extortion, has proven to be a catalyst for police investigations here into the conspiracy to discredit Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak and his administration.

And police are expected to act swiftly for as long as Justo remains behind bars in a Thai prison, it would be their window of opportunity.

“We can interview him while he remains in prison in Bangkok, Thailand,” Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Khalid Abu Bakar said.

“These are issues we will raise with Attorney-General (Tan Sri Mohamed Apandi Ali),” he added without elaborating.

Checks revealed the A-G could seek the cooperation of his Thai counterpart to grant access to Malaysian police to interview Justo, who was today sentenced to a three-year imprisonment by the South Bangkok Criminal Court, with no imposition of a fine.

This morning, the 49-year-old Justo pleaded guilty to a charge of blackmailing his former employer, PetroSaudi International, using highly-sensitive corporate data he had secured. It still remains uncertain if he had acted alone in securing the information or if there were others still at large.

As the blackmailing act took place in Thailand, it was the charge that was preferred by Thai police.

But it was what Thai police learnt from Justo in the course of their investigations that had far-reaching consequences.

Justo confessed to Thai police to blackmailing his former employer and also disclosed that he had met 10 foreigners, including prominent Malaysians, who had offered to purchase the computer information in his possession.

(Coincidentally, Justo’s former employer, PetroSaudi International, was previously involved in a deal with 1Malaysia Development Berhad, which was later aborted.)

It was this revelation which Thai police made public that later brought to light how former banker-turned-media tycoon Datuk Tong Kong Ooi and several others were allegedly involved in the conspiracy.

The prominent owner of the Edge Media Group has vehemently denied any involvement in such a plot, and police had recorded statements from him and his chief executive, Ho Kay Tat.

Besides this, a warrant of arrest was issued by Malaysian police for Sarawak Report editor Clare Rewcastle Brown, who alleged used the data in Justo’s possession.

Though not officially confirmed, a multi-jurisdiction investigation was already under way prior to Justo being arrested in south Thailand on June 22.

This surveillance and investigation saw the involvement of UK-based corporate risk management consultants Protection Group International (PGI).

PGI later disclosed their probe revealed information which appeared over the Sarawak Report website that seemed to have been tampered with as it was found to be “inconsistent” and “unreliable”.

Their probe also revealed there were disparities between the original contents of information and those which were published.

It was these disclosures which saw police here eager to interview Justo as soon as possible.

However, as he was under the purview of a Thai investigation, it was not possible to do so until they had secured a conviction on their matter.