Entertainment » Jaya Ahsan coming with Beauty Circus

Entertainment Report :Jaya Ahsan has already proved herself as an actress not only in Bangladesh but also in Kolkata. Now she is one of the busiest actors in Indian Bangla cinema whose commitment to her craft has taken her places including a circus. Jaya’s latest Bangladeshi film Debi, which also ...

Entertainment » Bijori takes break on her birthday

Sheikh Arif Bulbon :Bijori Barkatullah was one of the popular TV actresses of her generation. She is not only an actress but also a dance artiste, model and host. Today is her birthday. She takes break on her birthday. Before birthday she also worked. Bijori informed that yesterday she took ...

Sports » Rooney excited to see what `fearless` England are capable of

AFP, Burton-On-Trent :Wayne Rooney will make his final farewell as England's greatest ever goalscorer in a friendly against the United States on Thursday, but is excited at what a young squad can achieve under "fearless" coach Gareth Southgate in the years to come.Rooney, 33, made the last of his 119 ...

Sports » Shoulder injury rules Jason Holder out of Bangladesh tour

Agency :Windies suffered a big blow as captain Jason Holder was ruled out of the Bangladesh tour with a shoulder injury. Holder is said to have suffered the injury during the recent tour of India, and will need at least four weeks to recover from the setback."Jason has a partial ...

Editorial » Time for fixing banking irregularities

THE Bangladesh Bank's role as the custodian of the production and distribution of money and credit in the economy has been eroded by the finance ministry in the past decade. It's not a common people's remark. Rather, it came from a Director of the central bank while addressing a meeting ...

Football » Rooney excited for 'great moment' in England farewell

Wayne Rooney says he is honoured to make a final appearance for England and happy for manager Gareth Southgate to decide his playing time Thursday against the United States.Former Manchester United star Rooney, in video comments released Monday by his Major League Soccer club DC United, detailed his excitement at ...

International » Nobody can stand in its way in Pacific island cooperation: China

Reuters, Beijing :No country can block China's cooperation with island nations in the Pacific and the area is no country's sphere of influence, a senior diplomat said on Tuesday, ahead of a summit between President Xi Jinping and Pacific island leaders.Australia, in particular, has been vying for influence with China ...

International » Israel-Gaza border facing most serious fighting since 2014 war

Reuters, Gaza :Israel launched more air strikes on Gaza on Tuesday as Palestinians kept up rocket fire on Israeli territory, in the worst surge of violence since a 2014 war.The fighting - that has killed six Palestinians, five of them militants, and a civilian in Israel since Monday -threatened to ...

Entertainment » Oishee in China to win `Miss World` crown

Jannatul Ferdous Oishee crowned 'Miss Bangladesh 2018' on November 30. Now, she is in China for participating in the 'Miss World' beauty contest. There she will represent Bangladesh. On Saturday night at 1:00 am, Oishi left Dhaka for Sanya in China. And she reached there on Sunday morning.Swapan Chowdhury, chairman ...

Football » Ronaldo ends San Siro hoodoo as Juventus beat Milan 2-0

AP, Milan :Cristiano Ronaldo ended his San Siro hoodoo to help Juventus to a 2-0 win after AC Milan forward Gonzalo Higuain missed a penalty against his former team on Sunday.Higuain left Juventus in the offseason following the signing of Ronaldo and he had a nightmare game as he was ...

Editorial » No development yet in city's road traffic management

THE directives to ensure discipline in traffic system issued by higher authorities have failed to bring any result. The traffic rule violation is still rampant. Almost all directives addressing owners and workers of city service buses and human haulers, pedestrians and drivers went unheeded. If the traffic management system returns ...