BANGKOK: A foreign man des­cribed as a “main suspect” in the deadly Bangkok bombing has been arrested, with Thai police calling him an important figure in the network that staged the attack.

The man detained near the border with Cambodia is the second foreigner held over the Aug 17 blast at a religious shrine in central Bangkok which killed 20 people, mostly ethnic Chinese tourists.

Police also said arrest warrants have been issued for three fresh suspects still at large, two of whom have names which appear foreign.

Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha said the unidentified foreigner was picked up early yesterday at Sa Kaeo on the Thai side of the Cambodian border.

Asked whether he is thought to be the person who planted the bomb at the Erawan shrine in Bangkok’s busy Chidlom shopping district, he replied: “We are interrogating. He is a main suspect and a foreigner.”

National police spokesman Prawut Thavornsiri said investigators believe the suspect is “an important person in the network” behind the bombing, Thailand’s worst single mass-casualty attack.

The man speaks English, Prawut said, adding he appeared “similar” to a prime suspect captured on security camera footage leaving a bag at the scene moments before the blast.

Fresh arrest warrants are out for three new suspects for possessing bomb-making material, the spokesman added, holding up an iPad with sketches of the men.

One was unnamed but the other two were identified as Ahmet Bozaglan and Ali Jolan, although Prawut did not give their nationalities.

The motive for the shrine attack remains shrouded in mystery.

As speculation has swirled, a connection with Turkey has repeatedly bounced around local media, although authorities have been loath to single out any country.

Suspicion has also fallen intermittently on Thailand’s bitter political rivals, organised criminal gangs, militants, rebels in the kingdom’s strife-torn south and sympathisers of refugees from China’s Uighur minority.

The tempo of the investigation has increased since the weekend when the first arrest was made.

A foreigner was detained on Saturday at a flat in a Bangkok suburb, allegedly in possession of bomb-making paraphernalia and dozens of fake Turkish passports.

He is in military custody but has not been publicly identified.

A 26-year-old Thai Muslim woman called Wanna Suansan was named on Monday on another arrest warrant.

Police say she rented a separate flat in the city suburbs where bomb-making equipment was also found.

Thai authorities confirmed yesterday that Wanna is overseas but refused to say in which country.

Late Monday AFP tracked down her number and a woman answering that name took the phone call, saying she was living in the Turkish city of Kayseri with her husband whose nationality she did not state.

The number was for a Turkish mobile phone.

In her phone interview Wanna denied involvement in the blast, saying she had not visited the flat where the bomb-making equipment was found for around a year.

Instead, she said it had been rented to a friend of her husband.

Police have searched her parents’ home in the southern province of Phang Nga but believe she is overseas.— AFP