BANGKOK — A Thai court on Monday decided to put a Hong Kong photojournalist on trial for possession of a bulletproof vest and a helmet, which are considered weapons in Thailand.

Hok Chun Anthony Kwan, 30, was detained when he was about to board a plane on Aug. 23 after covering the aftermath of a deadly bomb explosion at a shrine in Bangkok. Kwan, a Hong Kong and Canadian citizen, works for the Hong Kong-based Initium media group. He earlier worked on the Minnesota Daily newspaper while attending the University of Minnesota.

His lawyer, Pawinee Chumsri, said he pleaded not guilty to the charge of weapons possession after being indicted by the court, which set a pre-trial hearing for Nov. 16. The trial will be held sometime in 2016, she said.

Pawinee said Kwan did not intend to violate Thai law. "Kwan believes he is not guilty. He only brought the jacket to protect himself," she said.

Under the Arms Control Act, a license is needed to possess body armor, which is considered a weapon. Violations are punishable by up to five years in jail. The law has rarely if ever been enforced for journalists covering the country's sometimes-violent political turmoil over the past nine years. Many large news organizations require their staff to wear protective gear in dangerous situations.

The Foreign Correspondents' Club of Thailand expressed disappointment over the filing of formal charges against Kwan.

In his image provided by Initium Media Technology, Hong Kong journalist Hok Chun Anthony Kwan sits in a cell Monday, Aug. 24, 2015, after he was detained Sunday at Suvarnabhumi Airport in Bangkok, Thailand, for carrying body armor and a helmet onto a flight bound for Hong Kong. Kwan, who was in Bangkok covering the aftermath of last week's bombing, is being charged with possessing an illegal weapon, which carries a prison sentence of up to five years. (Initium Media Technology via AP)

"Instead of charging Mr. Kwan, the Thai authorities should consult with the media community in Thailand ... to explore a way around the 1987 law, which was surely not intended to prosecute journalists carrying out their normal duties," it said in a statement.

Pawinee said Kwan is free on bail and will travel back to Hong Kong on Tuesday.