His wife, from Thailand, has been arrested in relation to the kidnapping

body was buried in a shallow grave nearby on Tuesday

Wayne Rodney Schneider, 38, a former Hells Angels member, was abducted by five masked kidnappers from his home in Pattaya around 5am Bangkok time on Monday

An American man and a Thai woman are expected to face charges over the kidnapping and murder of a former Australian Hells Angels bikie whose body was found in a shallow grave in eastern Thailand.

Wayne Rodney Schneider, 37, from NSW, was last seen as he was being driven away from his rented villa in the seaside town of Pattaya, 150 kilometres from Bangkok, by a group of masked men on Monday morning.

According to reports, he was beaten unconscious and kidnapped at gunpoint before his naked, tattooed body was found about 30 kilometres away in a shallow, sandy roadside grave in Sattahip Province in Chonburi on Tuesday.

His neck had reportedly been broken.

Thai police arrested a 21-year-old Tyler Joseph Fulton Sheen Gerard, from America, at an immigration checkpoint as he attempted to cross into Cambodia on Wednesday.

Gerard was among a list of suspects wanted in connection with the kidnapping of Schneider.

Also detained was the Thai wife of 26-year old Australian man, Antonio Bagnato, who police allege masterminded the attack.

Immigration officials said it is likely Bagnato had fled Thailand, but investigators told Australian Associated Press that his whereabouts where still unknown.

Police located Schneider's body by tracking a rented pick-up truck through its on-board GPS system.

Scroll down for video

American Tyler Joseph Fulton Sheen Gerard, 21, was arrested at an immigration checkpoint as he attempted to cross into Cambodia on Wednesday

Schneider's naked, tattooed body was found about 30 kilometres away in a shallow, sandy roadside grave

The Thai woman, whose name has been withheld, had rented the utility but told police she was unaware of any plan to abduct and kill Schneider.

Schneider had been living in Pattaya for about a month and shared his villa with Amad Malkoun, a former head of Australia's criminal Comancheros biker gang, police said.

Malkoun told Thai media that Schneider, Bagnato and himself had been drinking before returning to the villa ahead of Schneider's disappearance.

Thai authorities have previously drawn links between Australian bikie gangs and local drug traffickers and other illegal businesses.

The full motive for the kidnapping and murder of Schneider remains unclear.

His body was discovered not far from Pattaya where Mr Schneider was abducted in the early hours of Monday

His body had been found after he was abducted at gunpoint by five masked kidnappers, who witnesses say beat him unconscious

The main suspect is 26-year-old Australian man Antonio Bagnato.

Police have issued a warrant for his arrest over the abduction.

The suspect and victim had reportedly been drinking together on Sunday night in the tourist resort town.

Antonio Bagnato (pictured), 26, is the main suspect. Police have issued a warrant for his arrest over the abduction

Mr Schneider was then abducted from his home in Jomtien Park Villas in the Bang Lamung district.

Two security guards working at the housing estate told police they'd been threatened by a man with a gun and were warned to stay away.

The guards then heard Mr Schneider calling for help and told police they saw five men with scarves tied across their faces bashing the 38-year-old.

Blood and bullet casings, as well as paraphernalia used for taking crystal meth, were found at the scene and police have been reviewing CCTV cameras.

A spokesperson from Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade told Daily Mail Australia they are aware of the reports but would not comment further.

'The Australian Embassy in Bangkok is aware of reports that Thai authorities have located what is thought to be the grave of an Australian man earlier reported kidnapped.

'Due to our privacy obligations, we will not comment further,' the spokesperson said.

The French caretaker of the house, identified by local Thai media as Patrick Christian Paul Duvivier, said Mr Schneider had paid 130,000 baht (A$4,992) in advance for six months of rent and had lived there about a month, the Bangkok Post reported.

The four others suspect of the abduction are also said to be foreigners.

Mr Schneider is well known to Australian police and from 2007 he was for 18 months on NSW's ‘most wanted’ list. He was wanted over the shooting of a bouncer in the knee outside the Sapphire Suite nightclub in Kings Cross in 2006.

Mr Schneider is well known to Australian police and from 2007 he was for 18 months on NSW's ‘most wanted’ list over a Sydney shooting

He turned himself in to police and denied he was one of the group of men claiming to be Hells Angels who tried to force their way into the club.

In 2009, NSW police intercepted Mr Schneider in a vehicle in Sydney and confiscated more than $200,000 in betting chips and plaques from Melbourne's Crown Casino that he had.

Police alleged this was the proceeds from a crime, while Mr Schneider denied this claiming he won the haul gambling.

Thailand authorities have in recent years been keeping an eye on the activities of Australian bikie gang members with business interests in the country.

Mr Bagnato is also a former Sydney bikie member who has been living in Pattaya, according to Sydney Morning Herald.

Thai police said they had been working with Australian law enforcement officials, and they have made contact with Mr Schneider's wife in Dubai.