Hannah Witheridge aged 23, from Norfolk, eastern England was found alongside fellow victim Briton David Miller aged 24 from Jersey, both victims were found in the early hours of the 15 September 2014.

Hannah Witheridge aged 23, from Norfolk, eastern England was found alongside fellow victim Briton David Miller aged 24 from Jersey, both victims were found in the early hours of the 15 September 2014. EPA - BRITISH FOREIGN AND COMMONWEALTH - HANDOUT

THE family of a British backpacker who was raped and murdered in Thailand has claimed authorities told them to 'just make another one' if they were so upset about her death.

Hannah Witheridge, 23, was brutally murdered and raped on the island of Koh Tao in September 2014. Her travelling companion, David Miller, 24 was also murdered.

Zaw Lin and Wai Phyo have been found guilty of murdering the pair. They are currently appealing the verdict.

Hannah's sister, Laura, has written a Facebook post describing the family's grief and criticising Thai authorities' handling of the case. She says her family were told: "Why are you so bothered? Just go home and make another one."

She says they were also told: "Why are you making such a fuss, she will be back in 30 days as something else, she may have better luck next time."

She added: "What if I told you that I am now frightened of my own shadow? That I am constantly looking over my shoulder? That I am exhausted, but frightened to sleep because of nightmares?

"What if I told you that since we lost Hannah there have been many more suspicious deaths on Koh Tao. You probably haven't heard of them, as not all were British nationals. The deaths, where possible, are covered up as suicides and accidents.

"This would have happened with Hannah, if it had not been for the hideous brutality of her passing."

She also said she had received death threats and been sent graphic crime scene photographs "from Thai people".

She wrote: "I miss my sister desperately. My heart is heavy and my mind is tired."

Thai authorities' handling of the murder investigation has been criticised amid allegations that the two men were forced to admit guilt following torture. The police deny the accusation.

With additional reporting by Press Association