TERRIFYING turbulence sent one plane passenger “flying into the air” and hospitalised six people, as shocking pictures emerge revealing blood-splattered seats and people’s belongings hurled across the plane.

The Boeing 777 was en route from Jakarta, Indonesia, to Bangkok, Thailand, carrying 72 passengers and 12 crew when it was hit by severe turbulence, reports the The Sun.

Shocked cabin crew posted photos of the bloody aftermath on social media, which reveals a seat stained with blood from an injured passenger who hit his head after bouncing off the roof of the plane.

Shocking photos reveal aftermath of turbulence so severe that people were hospitalised: https://t.co/d61j6KFxhE pic.twitter.com/j9Jx7v74ED — The Sun (@TheSun) April 14, 2016

Thai news site Khaosod said he was not wearing his seatbelt when he was thrown from his seat during the flight.

Passenger Sarah-Jayne Edwards, 39, who was travelling with her daughter, AsiaLilly, told MailOnline Travel she wrote a note to explain what had happened to her husband.

It said: “That was the most scariest flight of my life. Two hours in and we had awful turbulence and no notice.

“We went up and down several times, everything went flying to the roof. People cut their heads, it was sooooo frightening.

“I grabbed AsiaLilly and cuddled her and told her we had hit a rain cloud so it was going to feel like a rollercoaster.

“Broke my heart when she said ‘mummy I’m scared!’”

A statement from Thai Airways was posted on their Facebook page on Monday confirming that six people had been sent to a hospital.

media_camera Shocking photos ... A Thai Airways flight from hell left passengers bloodied. Picture: Supplied.

Thai Airways President Charamporn Jotikasthira said: “The company apologises to passengers who were involved in the incident.

“The company has paid the cost of medical treatment for passengers and staff injured.

“All those who were hurt on the aircraft have returned home from hospital.”

The shocking images captured by cabin crew member Kru P’Birth were posted on his Facebook page.

Edwards, who was travelling on the flight, added: “Yes, it was blood [on the seat]. The man looked like an Indian guy and he had a nasty gash to his head.

“There were several calls for a doctor to make themselves known to the crew if there was one.

“I’m a British national living and working between Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia (Jakarta) so I travel this route several times a month. There was no warning or bad weather so the seat belt signs were not on.”

In December 2015, 21 people were injured from heavy turbulence on a “flight from hell.”

Passengers feared they would die after severe turbulence on board the flight from China to Canada.

Witnesses described seeing travellers being thrown from their seats during the terrifying incident on Wednesday.

This story first appeared in The Sun.

Originally published as Passengers injured in flight from hell