THE men convicted of murdering two British backpackers on a Thai island could demand a retrial after the investigation was found to be ‘incompetent at best’.

Police in Thailand could have to face an international regulator over the way they handled the investigation into the murder of British backpackers Hannah Witheridge and David Miller reported the Independent UK.

International legal and DNA forensics experts have advised Zaw Lin and Wai Phyo — the two Burmese immigrants sentenced to death over the killings — to make a formal complaint and demand a retrial.

media_camera Two Burmese workers were convicted of the murders of British tourists Hannah Witheridge and David Miller in Thailand. Picture: Twitter/RujRuj

Miller and Witheridge’s battered bodies were found on a Koh Tao beach on September 14, 2014.

Autopsies showed the pair, who met on the island while staying at the same hotel, had suffered severe head wounds and that Witheridge had been raped.

But experts have now said the DNA investigation by the Thai Police Forensics Laboratory was at best incompetent — and in the worst case scenario framed the two men reported the Independent UK.

“I have spoken to the Australian Asia Pacific Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation which is willing to intervene,” one of the team told the London Evening Standard.

“My feeling is the two young Burmese rather than being executed would be suing the authorities in a western country — and their lawyers should do that in Thailand.”

Reports emerged that the men were tortured into their confessions, which they later withdrew.

The head of Myanmar’s military has previously questioned the convictions. Senior General Min Aung Hlaing urged Thailand to “review the evidence” and to “avoid a situation in which the innocent ... were wrongly punished”.

media_camera Hannah Witheridge’s sister, Laura, has previously hit out at Thai police over the way they handled the investigation. Picture: Supplied.

Protests were also held in Myanmar’s biggest city, Yangon — outside the Thai Embassy and at the famed Shwedagon Pagoda and at the Myanmar-Thai border.

Witheridge’s sister Laura also attacked the conduct of the Thai authorities in a post on Facebook.

She said “the vast majority of Thai police” were corrupt, making the country a “dangerous trap” for tourists.

She said her parents were told to “go home and make another one” if they were upset at losing their daughter.

She also said, “What if I told you that, since we lost Hannah, there have been many more suspicious deaths on Koh Tao. You probably haven’t heard of them, as not all were British nationals. The deaths, where possible, are covered up as suicides and accidents.

“This would have happened with Hannah, if it had not been for the hideous brutality of her passing.”

Thai police have repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.

Originally published as Backpacker killers could sue police