Share:

BANGKOK - More than a dozen Rohingya refugees abandoned by people smugglers have been found in a southern Thai forest, police said Wednesday, almost a year on from a crackdown which has forced traffickers to find new routes.

Muslim Rohingya, an ethnic minority from Myanmar's western Rakhine state who are forced to live in apartheid-like conditions, have for years fled their homeland seeking work in Muslim-majority Malaysia.

"Fourteen Rohingyas, including kids as young as a few years old, were found at around 6am (Wednesday)," police captain Panuwat Chomyong, a highway officer in central Chumpon province, told AFP.

Smugglers abandoned the group ahead of a police checkpoint, Panuwat said, adding they had initially entered Thailand through Kanchanaburi province, a much more northern entry point than those usually used by traffickers.

The discovery suggests new routes are being sought by migrants and smugglers following Thailand's belated crackdown on the grim and lucrative trade last May which has seen boat crossings over the Bay of Bengal almost entirely cease.

For years Thailand turned a blind eye to well-worn trafficking routes in the deep south that carried tens of thousands Myanmar Rohingya refugees and Bangladeshi migrants over the border into Malaysia.

Human rights groups said officials both ignored and benefitted from the trade.

Most victims crossed the sea in rickety boats to be held in remote jungle camps where they were beaten, raped and abused until relatives paid release ransoms. They would then be moved to Malaysia.

The Thai crackdown saw more than 90 alleged traffickers arrested - including a senior general - and sparked a region-wide crisis as smugglers abandoned their cargo in jungle camps and at sea.

The dangerous sea crossings have since largely stopped and are unlikely to increase over the next few months with monsoon season approaching.

The group intercepted by police Wednesday was the first major discovery of Rohingya migrants in Thailand in many months, suggesting the flow has reduced to a trickle, though investigators say new ways into Thailand are being sought.

"Navy and marine police are strict along the borders of Myanmar now - so I've noticed that most Rohingyas are going by overland routes now," said Panuwat.

Police said the group began their journey in Mottama town in Myanmar's eastern Mon state which does not have a Rohingya population. But it is a city close to one of the main border crossings between Thailand and Myanmar and a frequent jumping off point for journeys east.

Meanwhile, a Myanmar Christian leader appealed for calm Wednesday after an influential Buddhist monk built pagodas within the compound of a church and near a mosque, in a country beset with religious tensions.

The incursions began last month when supporters of the monk Myaing Kyee Ngu erected a religious statue and planted a Buddhist flag on the church's grounds in the eastern state of Karen.

They returned on Saturday to erect a pagoda, according to local Anglican Bishop Saw Stylo.

The supporters have since moved on to build a pagoda near a mosque in a Muslim-majority village in the same township of Hlaingbwe, he said.

"That is why I asked all local young people, whether they are Buddhist, Muslim or Christian, not to do anything wrong," said Saw Stylo, who oversees Karen state, Mon state and Tanintharyi region.

Myanmar, which was stifled for decades under military rule, has long bristled with religious tensions between majority Buddhists and minority groups.

These surged sharply after a 2012 outbreak of violence in the western state of Rakhine between Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya left scores dead. Tens of thousands of Rohingya remain trapped in bleak displacement camps.

Buddhist nationalists have grown increasingly strident since then and their influence has been credited with swaying Aung San Suu Kyi's party against fielding a single Muslim candidate in last year's election, which swept her pro-democracy movement into power.

It is not clear what is behind the recent pagoda construction in Karen state. But the office of local MP Saw Chit Khin told AFP that Buddhist authorities had already written to the monk to urge him to cease building.

Images in local media showed dozens of people praying around the newly-erected white stupa.

"We feel very worried and sensitive about it. This might be political as well as religious," said Saw Stylo.

"I am very interested in how the new government will bring Myanmar to a brighter future. That is why I requested everyone to stay calm in this case," he added.

Christian communities in ethnic minority areas have for years complained of encroachments by zealous Buddhists, particularly through the presence of the military.

Christians and Muslims are each thought to make up over four percent of the population. But updated figures from a 2014 census in Myanmar - its first in three decades - have not yet been released amid fears that any perceived increases could further stoke animosity.