Get daily news updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Do you know the family? Contact webnews@trinitymirror.com or call 0207 293 3759

Three men have been arrested and charged over a sickening attack on a British family in Thailand which left an elderly couple knocked unconscious, it has been reported.

Horrific footage surfaced online yesterday evening of a mum, 68-year-old dad and 43-year-old son, believed to be from Scotland, being punched to the ground as they celebrate Thai New Year.

They are repeatedly kicked. As the woman, also thought to be in her 60s, tries to sit up, one of the thugs kicks her in the jaw, knocking her out cold.

The family were named by the Bangkok Post as Lewis Owen, 68, his wife Rosemary, 65, and his son John.

One man who had been drinking in the same bar in Hua Hin claimed the gang targeted Westerners.

(Image: http://www.tnamcot.com/)

Now Thai police have reportedly arrested three men and charged them with grievous bodily harm.

According to Thai-based website KhaosodEnglish.com, officers have identified identified four men as the assailants: Yingyai Kwangkum-in, 32; Supatra Baithong, 32; Siva Yoksri, 20; and Chaiya Jaiboon, 20.

Yingyai, Supatra and Siva were arrested April 16, while police are still looking for Chaiya, said Colonel Chaiyakorn Seeladecho.

An image posted on Thai state media claimed to show two of the suspects being paraded to reporters in front of police.

(Image: http://www.tnamcot.com/)

Bizarrely, there is also an image of the Tourism Minister for Hua Hin presenting the police officers with flowers "to thank them for having carried out their investigation so quickly".

"The perpetrators said they were drunk. They have also apologised to the family," Colonel Chaiyakorn said.

He said the son received seven stitches for a scalp wound, while his father had a swollen wound on his head, and his mother suffered a head injury that has left her with occasional headaches.

Yingyai, Supatra and Siva will be tried for causing GBH in a Hua Hin court, where the judges have sped up witness examination because the family are scheduled to return to Britain soon, Chaiyakorn said.

Other reports suggest as many as six people have been arrested over the attack.

Read more: Manhunt for gang of thugs after horrifying unprovoked street attack on British family in holiday resort

One eyewitness, who said he was also beaten in the attack, wrote online: "Within 20/30 meters of leaving the bar the Thais were punching the 65-year-old old lady in the face.

"The elderly gentleman was down on the floor, and their son was beaten very badly.

"At this point I caught up to the scene and pushed one of the youths away from the woman," he continued.

"I got severely punched and kicked for my troubles, but felt the need to protect this frail lady.

"The three of them are still hospitalised, and I will need cosmetic dental work done."

The attack happened in the early hours of April 13 during Songkran festivities, which is when Thais celebrate new year.

The British family had enjoyed a night out in the beach resort of Hua Hin - located 250km from the capital of Bangkok - when they were involved in an argument.

The trio, all wearing shorts and sandals, appeared to be trying to reason with the men who had approached them.

But suddenly a Thai struck the British man in the head and the incident quickly developed into a full-blown melee.

Read more: Thug brothers who filmed horrific attack on bulldog call police after one is allegedly assaulted

Just seconds later all three Brits were lying prone on the ground.

Another person, who claims to have witnessed the assault, posted on a separate forum claiming they overheard a group of Thai men saying they were going to attack "farangs" - a Thai term for Europeans.

They posted: "It happened last night at 2am when a group of Thai men who were over heard saying they were there to attack "Farangs", attacked a elderly couple leaving a bar."

"A Good Samaritan who stopped the beating of one of the victims, a 65-year-old woman, was also beaten. It is believed the men were gang members.

"This happened about one block from the Hun Hin police station.

"Please use caution tonight in the bar areas of Hua Hin as the stated purpose of the people responsible for the attacks is to attack foreigners. They are still at large."

Read more: British tourist stuck in Spanish hospital after collapsing begs 'let me go home to die'

Hua Hin is a seaside resort on the Gulf of Thailand, which is popular among Bangkok residents, and according to locals, has seen a rise in crime recently.

The Songkran New Year celebrations are also known as the Water Festival, when Thai families splash water on each other as part of a religious ritual of renewal.

The British Embassy launched its 'SongkranSafe' campaign ahead of the festivities and encouraged holidaymakers to take part while appreciating local customs and traditions.

In the past tourists have been arrested for breaching decency laws by taking part without wearing T-shirts.

A spokeswoman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) said: "Our staff have been in contact with the family to offer assistance and will remain in contact with the local authorities."

The FCO said they had no information on the condition of the three UK nationals following the attack.

The Thai island of Koh Tao has been subject to scrutiny after six Westerners died under suspicious circumstances in the last year.

Among those were backpackers Hannah Witheridge, 23, and David Miller, 24, whose bloodied bodies were found on a beach after being repeatedly struck with a hoe in a murder that shocked the island.