Bilal Mohammed, also known as Adem Karadag, arrives at court, on trial for the Erawan bombing, in this file photo taken on Feb 16, 2016. (Bangkok Post file photo)

One of two ethnic Uighur Muslims from China accused of involvement in the deadly bombing at the Erawan shrine last year broke down in front of the cameras on Tuesday as he made his way into a Bangkok court.

Twenty people were killed and 125 injured in the bombing on Aug 17, 2015 at the Erawan Shrine in Ratchaprasong, downtown Bangkok. Five of those who died were tourists from China and two from Hong Kong. Many of the injured were also ethnic Chinese.

Analysts, diplomats and even some officials suspected the attack was linked to sympathisers of the Uighur minority in western China angered by the Thai military government's deportation of more than 100 Uighurs to China the previous month.

But Thai police blamed members of a network that trafficked Uighur Muslims, angered at Thailand's crackdown on the trade.

"I'm not an animal," the shaven, shackled and barefoot Bilal Mohammed, also known as Adem Karadag, told a crowd of waiting reporters on Tuesday, as two guards led him into a military court in Bangkok's old town. "I'm human, I'm human."

Still image taken from video shows Adem Karadag, also known as Bilal Mohammed, a suspect in last year's Bangkok blast, shouting as he is escorted to court in Bangkok, Thailand, May 17, 2016. (Reuters TV via Reuters)

He and fellow suspect Yusufu Mieraili, who were in court for a review of witnesses, have denied all the charges against them.

"We're innocent, help us, help us, where are the human rights?" said a stony-faced Mieraili, as he emerged from a police car outside the court.

Lawyers said more than 250 witnesses could be called for the prosecution and defence. Mohammed's lawyer, Schoochart Kanpai, said he hoped the trial would be over by the end of 2016, but that it could drag on a year longer.

Police say Mohammed was caught on CCTV footage at the shrine, sitting on a bench and slipping off a bulky backpack before walking away, just before the blast.

Most Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language, live in China's violence-plagued Xinjiang region. Exiles and human rights groups say Uighurs chafe under government policies that restrict their culture and religion.

China denies this and blames Islamist militants for the rising violence.

Thai police have issued arrest warrants for 15 other people, eight of whom are thought to be either Turkish or in Turkey, according to the warrants and police statements.

Some Turks see themselves as sharing cultural and religious bonds with their Uighur "brothers".