He said additional punishment could include publicly announcing the sex offender's identity and requiring those on parole to wear an electronic monitoring device. Australian man Robert Andrew Fiddes Ellis is currently awaiting trial in Bali for allegedly sexually abusing at least 15 girls aged between seven and 17. But Bali prosecutor Alit Swastika said Ellis would not be affected because the new regulation could not be applied retrospectively. "No such law existed when Robert committed the crime," he said. The 69-year-old man, who is suspected of being part of an international paedophile ring, allegedly groomed street kids by showering them with love and gifts before sexually abusing them in the bath.

Peter Duncan Walbran. Credit:Am Sandford "If the girls spent the night there, then she will be given a couple of millions rupiah [about $200]. If they stayed longer, they might even be given a motorbike," Luh Putu Anggraeni, from child protection organisation Lentera Anak Bali told Fairfax Media earlier this year. The new regulation has implications for the Australian Federal Police, who share intelligence with their Indonesian counterparts on child sex tourism. AFP guidelines require senior AFP officials to take into account a series of factors before providing assistance in potential death penalty scenarios. These include whether the information is favourable to the defendant, the nationality of the person involved, the person's age and personal circumstances, the seriousness of the suspected criminal activity and the likelihood that the death penalty will be imposed. Ministerial approval is required in any case in which a person has been arrested or detained for, charged with, or convicted of an offence which carries the death penalty.

The new punishments for child sex offenders in Indonesia follow national outrage over the brutal gang rape and murder of Yuyun, a 14-year-old girl from Bengkulu in Sumatra. Seven boys under 18 were imprisoned for 10 years, a sentence many thought was too light. "We all mourn the tragic death of [Yuyun]. Catch and severely punish the perpetrators. Women and children must be protected from violence," Mr Joko tweeted after Yuyun's death. On Wednesday Mr Joko said extraordinary crime needed to be handled in an extraordinary way. AFP Commissioner Andrew Colvin (centre), Deputy Commissioner Mike Phelan (left) and Deputy Commissioner Leanne Close (right). Credit:Alex Ellinghausen