ES News Email Enter your email address Please enter an email address Email address is invalid Fill out this field Email address is invalid Email cannot be used. Try another or register with your social account

The tiny Pacific island nation of Nauru has legalised homosexuality, replacing its century-old criminal code with a new law that also criminalises slavery and broadens the definition of rape to apply to married and unmarried couples.

Under the new Crimes Act 2016, suicide has also been decriminalised, after the subject became an issue when refugees deported from Australia to a controversial Nauru detention centre committed or attempted suicide.

Nauru announced on Friday that the Crimes Act 2016 would replace the Nauruan Criminal Code of 1899.

The government said the decision to decriminalise homosexuality and suicide - in compliance with obligations under international treaties - showed "progressive leadership".

Edmund Settle, policy advisor for the United Nations Development Programme in Bangkok, praised Nauru for setting "a positive example in the Pacific region".

"The government of Nauru has demonstrated leadership in protecting sexual and gender minorities from violence and discrimination," Settle said by email.

As well as removing suicide and homosexuality as crimes, the new law also mitigates the crime of murder when a mother kills her infant as a result of suffering post-natal stress, and broadens the definition of rape to apply to married and non-married couples.

The new criminal code also outlaws forced labour, debt bondage or serfdom, which includes parents or guardians who allow a child to be placed under the control of another person or force a child to marry in exchange for material benefit.

About 10,000 people live on the reight sq mile island, formerly known as Pleasant Island, which lies to the north west of Australia and Papua New Guinea.

Nauru has been cast into the media spotlight recently, over its agreement with Australia to take in asylum seekers intercepted while trying to reach Australian shores.

The Nauru detention centre houses about 500 asylum seekers and has been criticised by the United Nations and human rights groups for harsh conditions and reports of systemic child abuse.

Many detainees staying there have self-harmed, and last month, an Iranian man pleaded guilty to the offence of attempted suicide and was given a 12-month suspended sentence.

An activist said that a Bangladeshi refugee on Nauru who died of heart failure earlier this month had committed suicide by overdosing on pills.