Shocking CCTV has emerged of an entire family being bashed and knocked to the ground at a market in Thailand.

FOUR boozed-up yobs who battered three members of a British family unconscious in Thailand have been locked up.

The Sun reports that elderly couple Rose and Lewis Owen were knocked out cold along with their 43-year-old son Lewis Jr.

Shocking video showed grandmother Rose be kicked across the jaw as she tried to sit up after being struck down.

The footage showed all three of them lying unconscious on the ground after the sickening attack.

They were assaulted after Lewis Jr bumped into one of the thugs and caused him to spill his drink, it is reported.

Four men have now been locked up for a combined total of eight years.

They admitted unleashing the horrific assault in the popular tourist resort of Hua Hin in April.

Suphattha Baithong and Yingyai Saengkhamin, both 32, and Siva Noksri and Chaiya Jaiboon, both 20, were at first handed a four year sentence each.

Their sentences were cut in half after they admitted the attacks.

Rose and Lewis, from Wenvoe, Glamorgan, in Wales, travel to Thailand each year to visit their son who lives in Singapore.

They were out making the most of the Thai New Year festivities on the day of the assault.

When the men were arrested, police chief Chaiyakorn Sriladecho said shortly afterwards: “All four suspects have been arrested.

“They say they are sorry and say they wouldn’t have done this if they weren’t drunk.

“The attack started when the son ­accidentally bumped into one of the Thai men.”

During their trial Rose gave evidence in a private room and she felt unable to face her attackers.

She told the court: ‘I still have nightmares. And the headaches. The headaches are there all the time.

“I don’t know if it will always stay with me, the memory, but for now I have nightmares and it is sad that this has happened to me by a small group of Thai people, people who I love.”

This article originally appeared in The Sun and was reproduced with permission.