BANGKOK, 15 August 2016: Security has been beefed up at all of Thailand’s tourist destinations in the wake of the Mother’s Day bomb attacks last Friday.

Tourism Authority of Thailand released a statement two days after the 12 August attacks saying the country has returned to normal, although tourist security is on high alert across the nation.

The security focus is on shopping malls, airports, public transport including the Skytrain and MRT as well as popular tourist venues at beach resorts.

As police investigations continue speculation focuses on a political motive rather than international terrorism.

However, the attacks will hit tourist arrivals badly over the next few weeks as most countries upgrade their travel advisories to high alert levels for the first time since the 17 August, 2015, Erawan Shrine bombing in the Thai capital.

In a statement broadcast nationwide, Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-ocha, condemned the Mother’s Day bombing at six tourist destinations during a nation-wide address Friday. He hinted that the attacks were politically motivated in the aftermath of the 7 August referendum vote.

The 12 August bomb and arson attacks, in seven southern provinces, killed four Thais and injured 35 people including European tourists.

August 12 is the birthday anniversary of HM the Queen, 84. It also celebrated as the nation’s Mother’s Day.

During the TV broadcast prime minister expressed sorrow for families of the dead victims and for the injured, both Thais and foreigners and pledged full rehabilitation and compensation for victims.

“On the auspicious occasion of Mother’s Day, he said that Thai people should celebrate the event in happiness with their families, but instead there were incidents that caused deep sorrow.”

Two suspects have been arrested for questioning so far, but security at tourist destinations including shopping malls and government offices has also been beefed up.

The PM called on citizens not to panic but to act as “eyes and ears” of the authorities by being watchful of suspicious people or objects left unattended.

The national police chief claimed the spate of bomb and arson attacks in the seven southern provinces were politically motivated.

Muslim separatists in the three deep-south provinces bordering Malaysia have not claimed responsibility. Over more than 12 years of unrest there is no evidence of them targeting tourist resorts.

Police officials noted that the arsons attacks at Khao Lak in Takua Pa district of Pha-nga and Ao Nang in Krabi, both popular tourist resorts occurred almost simultaneously, while the bomb explosions at Patong beach in Phuket and in Surat Thani took place one after another within a few hours of the first blasts. The bombs were detonated by mobile phones.

The attackers focused on tourist hotspots.

Four blasts over 24 hours in Hua Hin, a popular holiday spot for Bangkok residents and foreign tourists.

Two blasts near the police station in Surat Thani, a mainland river estuary town where ferries bound for Samui island dock.

Two blasts at Patong bay, the most popular beach on Phuket island’s west coast.

One blast in Trang town that lies south of Lanta island. The town is an emerging tourist destination noted for its diving and island national parks.

Bomb and arson attacks in Khao Lak and Ao Nang, Krabi, popular beach resorts in the province of Phang Nga on the mainland just north and south of Phuket island.

All of the 11 bomb blasts were in South Thailand with the exception of Hua Hin, which is around 200 km (125 miles) from Bangkok.

The Mother’s Day attacks come less than a year after the Erawan shrine bomb attack at Ratchaprasong intersection, Bangkok, 17 August, 2015, that killed 20 persons and injured 125.

Two suspects were arrested and remain in custody awaiting trial. They denied all charges at an initial hearing, last April, while 15 other suspects in that bomb attack remain at large. No group claimed responsibility.