BANGKOK, Thailand - A Thai military court has dismissed allegations of torture in prison by two blast suspects.

A three-judge panel has ruled, “After investigating these claims, the court finds them to be false and the defendants will remain where they are since this is a case of national security.”

The two Uighur-speaking suspects have been held on account of their alleged involvement in the bomb blasts at Erawan shrine, last year which left 20 people dead.

Due to the lack of a proper Uighur translator, the court postponed the hearing of the case to September.

In the early hearings, the suspects had appealed to be moved to a different correctional facility saying that in their prison cells, they were being tortured and forced to confess their role in the shrine blasts.

Mieraili Yusufu and Bilal Mohammad, the two Chinese suspects have pleaded not guilty.

Chuchart Kanpai, the lawyer for Mohammad says his client was tortured to confess that he had planted the bomb. Bilal had complained that the prison officers had poured cold water into his nose to force a confession.

Police rejects the claims of the suspects saying that there is enough video footage to prove their role in the blasts. According to the police, Bilal had left a backpack carrying a bomb in the temple and Yusufu had then detonated it.

The Erawan shrine is dedicated to Lord Brahma and receives a lot of tourists especially from China. The blasts at the temple in 2015 had resulted in the death of 14 tourists.

Officials have said that the blasts may have been an attack planned by human smuggling group which was intercepted by the government earlier on. Other speculations are that the blasts were planned by Uighur separatists who were angry with the government for forcibly returning 109 Uighurs to China for persecution.

Since the 2014 coup, the military courts in Thailand having been given the power to hear cases related to national security.

Only two of the 17 accused in the blasts are presently in the government’s custody.