Scenes from Suwana Sama — The Faithful Son. photos courtesy of Opera Siam International

In honour of HM Queen Sirikit's birthday on Aug 12, Somtow Sucharitkul's opera Suwana Sama -- The Faithful Son will be performed at the Thailand Cultural Centre from Saturday until Aug 7.

Suwanna Sama depicts the third of the 10 lives of the Buddha known as Dasjati (or Tosachat in Thai). For the past decade, leading Thai composer Somtow has worked on writing 10 musicals portraying the lives of the Buddha's Dasjati.

Presented in a ballet-opera format, the show was performed on Dec 5, 2015, to celebrate the birthday of the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej at Rangsit Suryadhep Auditorium of Rangsit University.

The story takes place almost entirely in the magical forest of Himavant. It tells of the devotion of faithful son Sama, who takes care of his blind parents. He is fatally wounded by a poison arrow shot by King Piliyakka. The king wanted to hunt Sama as a trophy. The dying Sama does not blame anyone, but shows concern for his blind parents because he will no longer be able to care for them. The king is ashamed of his actions.

Bahusodari, a messenger of the King of Heaven, tells the king that he has killed the Bodhisattva, an incarnation of the Buddha. The king has to confess what he did to Sama's parents and brings them to Sama. When the parents sit beside Sama's dead body, their tears sweep away their blindness and bring Sama back to life. The story ends in happiness.

This tale of the faithful son is a simple story of miracles and of the love of a mother that can reaches beyond death.

Thailand's leading countertenor Jak Cholvijarn plays Sama, like he did in the previous Suwana Sama -- The Faithful Son performance, two years ago. Jak also performed the incarnation of the Buddha in the first series of Somtow's operas last year.

Other international operatic voices are Chicago's Stacey Tappan, Australian bass Damian Whiteley and Houston's dramatic soprano Cassandra Black.

Another outstanding play for this latest performance is the two chamber orchestras on either side of the conductor, representing the dualities of the story: two villages, an urbane court and a magical forest, natural and supernatural, gods and humans.

"This is not opera in the traditional sense, which is why I use the word 'music drama'," said Somtow, adding that dance propels the story as much as singing and modern narrative modes derived from cinema underscore the presentation.

Suwana Sama -- The Faithful Son will be performed in the Main Hall of the Thailand Cultural Center on Saturday at 8pm, Sunday at 4pm and on Aug 7 at 8pm. Tickets are priced at 500, 1,000, 2,000 and 5,000 baht, and are available from ThaiTicketMajor.

Visit www.thaiticketmajor.com. For groups, call Ratana at 089-136-9981 or 02-231-5273.