Get daily news updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Terrifying footage captures fairground revellers screaming in terror as "overloaded" carriages on a spinning octopus ride crash to the ground.

Fifteen people on board the 'Takada' attraction were injured yesterday during a festival in Samut Prakan, near Bangkok, Thailand.

The ride crashed when two hydraulic pumps, connecting the octopus to its tentacles, broke which sent eight carts careering to the ground at full speed.

Footage from onlookers captured sparks flying as one arm hit the ground with a massive bang, followed by another loud crash from a second tentacle - each one holding around eight people.

(Image: Viral Press)

A girl was seen being flung back as the ride accelerates to the sound of screams. The octopus's head then toppled over as passenger's ran for cover.

Ambulances arrived after the incident at 9.40pm and rushed 15 people to hospital to be treated for cuts, bruises and fractures.

While pictures showed the damage done to the carriages as they skidded along the ground.

Premnao Atcharakorn, 21, who was inside one of the carriages that hit the ground, said: "There was a normal atmosphere, everybody was happy.

(Image: Viral Press)

"Just a few seconds later the fairground ride suddenly dropped to the ground and there was a loud banging sound. My head was thrown back.

"I've never had anything like this happen to me before. It was terrifying. I'm still in shock. It was the scariest accident that has ever happened in my life."

Police and military officials arrived and inspected the ride.

They found that "multiple axles" connecting hydraulic levers which lift the octopus's arms up and down had snapped off due to being "overweight".

(Image: Viral Press)

(Image: Viral Press)

The octopus had five tentacles each holding four carts. Around eight people could fit on each tentacle - two in each of its cars. The ride is understood to have been full at the time.

After the hydraulics broke, staff rushed to push the emergency stop button.

Police Lieutenant Colonel Sohpon Poonutrong from the Samut Prakan district police station said there were "many injured people" after the accident outside the region's town hall.

He said: "Several agencies arrived at the scene after receiving the emergency call at 9:40pm. At the scene were people in panic and many casualties. People had been sitting close together on the ride.

(Image: Viral Press)

"Officers and members of the public helped and 15 patients were taken to Samut Prakan hospital. They were in pain and symptoms included cuts, bruises and one ankle fracture.

"From initial inspection the hydraulic cylinder which makes the tentacles go up and down had broken. Two joints and the squid's head were damaged by the incident."

The ride's owner Jaynjiraa Kongwan, 51, told police the machine had been imported from China and that insurance would cover the medical costs of the victims.

She said that a team of engineers and technicians had inspected the ride before it had been installed.

Samut Prakan governor Chatchai Uthaiphan said he had ordered civil servants to inspect the ride.

He said: "From the preliminary inspection it is probably caused by the baskets being overweight and too heavy for the hydraulic cylinder. This caused it to fall to the ground and as a result, people were injured.

"The ride will terminate immediately and an investigation will take place into the machine and the owners, who could be charged with negligence."