BANGKOK, Nov. 20, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Travelers can now glam up for Thailand's famous full and half-moon parties on the paradise island of Koh Phangan, as Anantara Rasananda Koh Phangan Villas launches a luxury Koh Phangan Party in Style Package. The upscale party package blends exclusive full or half moon revelry with indulgent island pleasures into a three night stay or more in an Ocean Pool Villa.

Day one has a bespoke arrival. Travelers are met at Koh Samui airport for a private car transfer to Bangrak Pier, to relax at Anantara's private lounge. Boarding the sophisticated Minor Affair yacht or a luxury catamaran, the journey to Koh Phangan is toasted with sparkling wine and canapés, and ends up pulling ashore on the pristine sands of Thong Nai Pan Noi Beach, directly in front of Anantara Rasananda. The first night of beachfront villa luxury comes with a taste of tropical island life, as sunset cocktails are served.

Day two energizes. Guests rise to the choice of an in-villa breakfast or a lavish breakfast buffet at the beachfront restaurant. The day flows as each guest pleases – perhaps lounging in their villa's shoreline plunge pool, or strolling along soft sands and cooling off in turquoise sea. Later on, party make-up is island style artwork with personalized glow in the dark body paint. VIP tickets to the full or half moon party include private return transfers between the resort and party venue, accompanied by a personal butler with en route cocktails. Following a night of revelry, after-party indulgence serves late night or early morning comfort food in quiet villa privacy.

Day three rejuvenates. A sumptuous in-villa breakfast continues the party mood with Champagne. The resort's signature jungle spa offers a pampering afternoon haven, refreshing guests with a rehydration spa treatment and detox mocktails.

Enhancing island exclusivity, guests are served free flow sparkling wine throughout their stay and can choose when to escape on two ocean adventures. A private speedboat is on call to explore the most spectacular spots of the Ang Thong National Marine Park, accompanied by Anantara's Island Guru. At the most romantic time of day, guests board a private longtail boat for an unforgettable sunset cruise.

On day four, guests can opt for a lazy breakfast in their beach villa or a hearty restaurant buffet. For those departing, a transfer to Koh Samui on the Minor Affair yacht or a luxury catamaran is followed by a private car to the airport. While those who wish to extend their getaway can indulge in more blissful relaxation and rich island discoveries.

PACKAGE INCLUDES:

Three night stay or more in an Ocean Pool Villa

Four days of party perks and resort privileges for two persons

Unlimited sparkling wine

Private speedboat to Ang Thong National Marine Park accompanied by Island Guru

Private sunset longtail boat cruise

Prices for the Koh Phangan Party in Style Package start from $2,709

Rates quoted are per room per package, subject to availability and a cancellation policy.

Rate noted above is based on recent currency exchange data.

For more information on applicable tariffs during your desired booking period or to make a reservation, please contact

Tel: 1844-MINOR24, Email: rasananda@anantara.com Website: www.anantara.com

For media enquiries, please contact:

Jessica Bradford 2BPR, Inc. Jessica@2bprinc.com

626-379-2381

View original content with multimedia:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/anantara-glams-up-thailands-famous-full-moon-revelry-with-a-koh-phangan-party-in-style-package-300559439.html

SOURCE Minor Hotels

Copyright (C) 2017 PR Newswire. All rights reserved