Best Western Hotels & Resorts is celebrating the successful conclusion of its 11th Asian Members’ Meeting, which gathered delegates from all across Asia to Bangkok for two days of immersive meetings, discussions and networking opportunities.



Running under the theme “BW & Beyond”, this year’s event provided a vision for Best Western’s future as it embarks on an exciting new era. The company has launched eight new global brands since 2015, including a series of cutting-edge concepts catering for the millennial market. So, this year’s Asian Members’ Meeting focused on the company’s bright future in Asia and the exciting opportunities provided by this dynamic market.



The event took place over the course of several days in late November, as Best Western’s executives, hotel managers and owners gathered at the upscale Montien Riverside Hotel, Bangkok, which will soon become a Best Western Premier hotel.



Delegates were treated to an in-depth programme that included executive speeches, corporate updates and networking opportunities. The event was addressed by Ron Pohl, Best Western’s senior vice president and chief operations officer, and Olivier Berrivin, managing director of International Operations – Asia, who provided updates about the company’s ongoing regional expansion.



Special guest speakers from Google and Agoda.com were present to update delegates on the rapid technological developments currently taking place in the hotel industry. Best Western’s hotel owners and procurement company also addressed the meeting.



The meeting concluded with a glittering farewell dinner in the Montien Riverside Hotel’s ballroom, and an award ceremony to honor Best Western’s best performing hotels in Asia.



“This is an extremely exciting time for Best Western Hotels & Resorts and we are delighted to have been able to share our vision with delegates and partners at our 11th Asian Members' Meeting,” said Berrivin.



“With a portfolio that now comprises 11 hotel brands, including many innovative new concepts that are perfectly suited to the emerging millennial market, Best Western is currently undergoing a period of historic growth. Our Asian Members’ Meeting allowed our executives, owners and managers to come together, share ideas and drive our business forward. We were also delighted to honor our top performing hotels at the Best Western Award Ceremony.”



“Delegate feedback has been extremely positive, and we look forward to raising the bar for hotel accommodation in Asia following this highly successful event,” Berrivin added.



“We are excited about Best Western’s growing presence and continued reign as one of Asia’s leading hotel brands,” said Pohl. “The year 2017 has been incredible, as we now have 108 hotels and resorts in destinations all across Asia, providing more than 15,000 rooms and suites. We also have 53 hotels with nearly 10,700 rooms in the regional pipeline. We look forward to another successful year ahead, delivering exceptional experiences to our guests and expanding our portfolio to many more great destinations across Asia.” - TradeArabia News Service