Bacardi Global Travel Retail has reported its latest launch from the Aberfeldy Distillery—the Aberfeldy Gold of Pitilie 28yo—of which only a rare, limited-edition of just eight bottles were created as an exquisite expression of the Master Blender’s skill, sold out within three hours at the DFS Group-curated fourth annual Masters of Wines and Spirits presentation in Singapore on November 8 2014.

Aberfeldy Gold of Pitilie 28yo was crafted by Master Blender Stephanie Macleod. The single malt made its Singapore release at SGD$4,888 / $4,000 per bottle, making it the oldest and rarest commercial bottling in the distillery’s 116-year history. The ultra-premium expression epitomises Bacardi’s ambition to drive genuine innovation and disruption within the whisky category as part of its recently launched malts strategy, said the company in a statement.

The eight-bottle edition was drawn from a single hand-selected 1985 Vintage Cask and bottled by hand directly from the cask at the distillery. No more of that 1985 cask will ever be released, guaranteeing the edition’s rarity.

Bacardi Global Travel Retail regional director Asia-Pacific & MEA Irving Holmes Wong said: “This is Bacardi’s first experience with the prestigious DFS Masters of Wine and Spirits and we wanted to create something really special to celebrate our partnership with DFS for their most discerning customers. We’re continually seeking innovative ways in which to craft our unique discovery malt whisky portfolio to bring new excitement and added momentum that unlocks the exceptional potential of discovery malts to drive the category.

“Credible and memorable offerings of aged malts are increasingly rare and are highly sought after by connoisseurs and collectors, as witnessed by the speed of this sell-out success. The golden aura around this truly exquisite presentation highlights the ability of the Aberfeldy brand to support travel-retail’s imperative to deliver stunning surprises to even the most discerning and experienced luxury consumer and to absolutely wow them when they travel. For Bacardi that’s a key aspect of our strategy to continually drive innovation and deliver a strong call to action in the whisky category.”