Media agency GroupM has launched an initiative to fast track its most talented staff into senior management roles and spread good ideas through the company.

The announcement:

Singapore – The GroupM Singapore Executive Leadership team has collaborated to appoint 7 enthusiastic and ambitious talented staff to join forces and create a cross agency community. They will work directly with the Leadership team in delivering fresh thinking in all areas of our business, both internally, and importantly, for our clients. The intention of this programme is to engage these key talent and amplify our strategic business goals.

The inaugural eMpower team will be given access to a variety of development opportunities. These will include working on strategic business projects and presenting the outcome to the Singapore Executive Committee, as well as attending and participating in workshops and other relevant networking opportunities with key senior stakeholders/partners of our business.

As the eMpower team will be focusing on enhancing GroupM’s internal collaboration and workplace culture, they were involved in a kickoff event, where they had to arrange a Walkathon for 600 GroupM staff in aid of GroupM Singapore’s Power of One event, that will take place on Friday 27 February, and doubles as fund raising initiative for Singapore Red Cross, in support of the pioneer generation – SG50.

Gareth Ling, Chief Talent Officer and sponsor of GroupM Singapore eMpower team, says: “The structure of this programme enables our high potential talent to experience first-hand the challenges and demands of managing our business, allowing a channel for fresh insights and perspective.

They now also have the opportunity to broaden their scope of learning outside their defined day to day roles. Being partnered from the start with an Executive Mentor will accelerate their development and equip them with the necessary skills for leadership positions in the future. I am very excited to be part of this pioneering initiative.”