news, world

The world was reminded once again of Singapore's tough stance on crime when two German men were sentenced on Thursday to nine months' jail and caning for vandalism. Andreas Von Knorre, 22, and Elton Hinz, 21, broke into a suburban train depot and spray-painted graffiti on the exterior metro (MRT) train cabin in November 2014. They fled to Malaysia after the incident but were arrested at Kuala Lumpur International Airport and extradited back to Singapore. Both men expressed remorse in court when they were being sentenced at the Singapore State Courts. "This is the darkest episode of my entire life," Von Knorre said. "I want to apologise to the state of Singapore for the stupid act." Hinz also promised the courts "he will never do it again". "I want to apologise to you, and my family for the shame and situation I've put them into," he said. Both were dressed in prison uniform - a white T-shirt and brown trousers with the word "Prisoner" down the sides and on the back. They spoke to the court in English. Channel Newsasia said the men carried cans of spray paint and latex gloves, which they bought locally, and broke into the Bishan train depot and sprayed graffiti on a train. The men pleaded guilty to trespass and vandalism and offered to pay for the graffiti cleaning costs, which the train operator, SMRT Corporation Limited, rejected, according to Channel Newsasia. The offences were planned and disrupted public transport, District Judge Liew Thiam Leng said on Thursday. "If you come to a foreign country, you've to respect the laws there," Ruediger Ackermann, one of the lawyers, said. "Of course corporal punishment is seen back in Germany as a concern as we abolished it more than 160 years ago." In Berlin, a foreign ministry official said the German government respected the sovereignty of Singapore. "But it speaks out against corporal punishment as a form of sentence worldwide - and that also means in Singapore," the official said. "The German government has made that clear." Under the Vandalism Act in Singapore, the crime of vandalism carries a fine of up to 2000 Singapore dollars ($1880), up to three years imprisonment and between three and eight strokes of the cane. Caning is a judicial corporal punishment dating back to British colonial rule in Singapore and involves being flogged with a rattan cane. It emulated whipping offences conducted in England in the 1800s. During caning, a criminal stands against a rigid frame or trestle faced away from the flogger who whips the criminal on their exposed buttocks. Other foreigners who were punished for vandalism were Swiss national Oliver Fricker, who was jailed for seven months and caned three times after breaking into a Singapore depot and spray-painting a train in 2010 and American teenager, Michael Fay, who was caned for damaging cars and public property in 1994. After his caning, Fay told The New York Times the procedure took a minute and left a "few streaks of blood" running down his buttocks and ripped open his skin. Singapore has also whipped its own citizens, caning 20-year-old soldier Dave Teo Ming 18 times in 2008 for stealing a rifle during guard service. Malaysia and Brunei also uphold the practice. With wires

https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/5226e71a-2293-40c1-b1dd-98e75663ab5f.jpg/r2_0_728_410_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg