Press Releases

Pan Pacific Hotels Group appoints Maria Kormentza as Director, Learning & Talent Development

Based at the global headquarters in Singapore, Maria will be responsible for driving the Group's learning & talent development strategies and programmes.

Singapore, 5 March 2015 - Pan Pacific Hotels Group is pleased to announce the appointment of Maria Kormentza as Director, Learning & Talent Development.

Based at the headquarters in Singapore as part of the corporate Human Capital & Development team, Maria will spearhead the formulation and implementation of learning, talent and leadership development strategies to strengthen associate engagement and service delivery standards across the Group's over 30 "Pan Pacific" and PARKROYAL hotels, resorts, serviced suites in Asia, Oceania and North America.

A Greek national, Maria is an accomplished Learning & Development professional who joins the Group from Singapore Airlines where she enjoyed a rewarding 14-year long career. Over the past decade within the Commercial Training and Development (Airport Operations & Services) function, Maria had been instrumental in enhancing the performance of Singapore Airlines airport employees across the globe and maintaining stringent operational and service standards through strategic training & development programmes. Her Learning & Development expertise is grounded on four years of frontline customer service experience with the award-winning airline at airport service areas in Athens, Greece.



An advocate of continuous learning, Maria holds two Master's degrees - one in Human Resources Management from University of Murdoch, Australia and another in Business Administration with a major in Total Quality Management from University of Leicester, United Kingdom.

"Pan Pacific Hotels Group firmly believes that the backbone of our business is a well-trained, productive and committed workforce - highly engaged and aligned in achieving our strategic and operational priorities. As we pursue expansion ambitions and strive to elevate the guest experience across our properties, we are pleased to welcome Maria on board to drive the training and development of our associates towards higher levels of service and performance excellence," says Andreas Sungaimin, Senior Vice President, Human Capital & Development.

Pan Pacific Hotels Group currently has a global headcount of over 7,000 employees, a figure which is set to increase with five pipeline projects that are scheduled to open across Asia Pacific and in Europe over the next five years.

-End-

About Pan Pacific Hotels Group

Pan Pacific Hotels Group is a wholly-owned hotel subsidiary of Singapore-listed UOL Group Limited, one of Asia's most established hotel and property companies with an outstanding portfolio of investment and development properties. Based in Singapore, Pan Pacific Hotels Group owns and/or manages over 30 hotels, resorts and serviced suites with more than 11,000 rooms including those under development in Asia, Oceania, North America and Europe. The Group comprises two acclaimed brands: "Pan Pacific" and PARKROYAL. "Pan Pacific" is a leading brand in Asia and the Pacific Rim with hotels offering premium accommodations and services. PARKROYAL is a collection of comfortable leisure and business hotels and resorts located in the heart of cities and interesting locales across Asia Pacific.www.pphg.com.

Media contact: