The Jeweller Received The BrandLaureate Signature Award for Second Consecutive Year

SINGAPORE--(Marketwired - Mar 16, 2015) - Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Limited retains its supremacy as pure-play jeweller, clinching the BrandLaureate Signature Award in Retail Jewellery at the recent prestigious 2015 BrandLaureate BestBrands Award 2014-2015. The recent accolade is the second award the company has received.

Dubbed "The Grammy Awards", The BrandLaureate BestBrands Award, is widely acknowledging successful brands that have a legacy of strong branding and culture that has accomplished remarkable success which is the theme of this year's award "Brand Driven & Driven by Brand".

Chow Tai Fook emerged as the winner of The BrandLaureate Signature Award, a result of branding performance as market leaders. The jeweller was recognised as a company which capitalized on their branding and core messages that appeal to their customers, which propelled them to achieve their leadership position and stamp their mark in the industry.

Mr. Peter Suen, Executive Director of Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Limited commented, "We are utterly delighted and immensely thankful for winning the title of The BrandLaureate Signature Award. This award is very significant to us as it is the second time we are being recognised for our branding success.

"This is a significant win for us as we reaffirm our commitment to producing fine jewellery for our discerning clients. The award is also testament to our market-leading position in the industry and we are motivated to offer even more innovative jewellery pieces and better value to our customers in the future", Mr Peter Suen added.

Chow Tai Fook has been officially awarded this year as the Disney official authorization to sell Disney Collections in Singapore and Malaysia, and first launched Disney authorized products in Singapore, including Disney Classic Collection -- Mickey & Minnie, Disney Princess Collection and Disney Winnie The Pooh Collection.

Chow Tai Fook is now Asia-Pacific region's largest jewellery Disney licensee, with four consecutive years of Disney licensee's awards, including Best Marketing Fashion & Home 2011, Best Fashion Licensee 2012, Best Licensee China Fashion 2013 and Best Licensee Award 2014.

Image

Middle: Ms Liu Po King, Director of Overseas Business Development, Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Co., Ltd

http://release.media-outreach.com/i/Download/2661

Company logo

http://release.media-outreach.com/i/Download/2072