Hyper, SizeUp, Token, Payfirma and Pendo Systems advance to Innotribe Startup Challenge Finale at Sibos in Singapore

The Innotribe Startup Challenge attendees selected the five finalists from the American leg of the Startup Challenge to compete at Sibos Singapore in October. The showcase was held on Thursday 18 June, in partnership with Next Bank USA.

The three early-stage startup finalists are:

Hyper are developing Hyperledger, a distributed ledger platform tailored for financial institutions to help mitigate settlement risk, prevent trade breaks and cut reconciliation costs.

SizeUp provides financial institutions with big data for their small business customers to make smarter decisions through data.

Token helps banks meet the requirements for fast and secure payments by providing an end-to-end payments ecosystem accessible to developers, where all transactions are authorized using digital signatures.

The two growth-stage startup finalists are:

Payfirma helps small businesses simplify payment acceptance, increase sales and have better visibility with real time data.

Pendo Systems finds and links together desperate legacy systems creating a single and searchable view to help Legal, Risk, Compliance and Executives exhilarate the Customer Experience and solve data quality inconsistencies with Extropik, patented linked data and semantics tool.

“With its unique combination of finance and technology, New York is the perfect backdrop to support the startup ecosystem.” says, Fabian Vandenreydt, Head of Markets Management, Innotribe and the SWIFT Institute at SWIFT. “Every year we grow more impressed with the calibre of the startups and level of participation from the financial community in this region. With major financial institutions and technology companies supporting the New York showcase, it has become one of our most popular events. We congratulate the winners from the New York showcase and wish them much success at the finals at Sibos in Singapore later this year.”

New York was the fourth regional showcase to be held in 2015 and was sponsored by Deutsche Bank, HP, IBM, Invest Northern Ireland, Level39, Luxembourg for Finance and Wells Fargo. The 20 finalists selected from the four regional showcases (London, Cape Town, Singapore and New York) will now head to the Finale taking place at Sibos Singapore on 14 October.

