ADVERTISEMENT

World leaders condemned the fatal attack in the heart of Bangkok that has killed at least 22 people so far, while at the same time expressing their condolences to the families of the victims.

In a statement, the United Nations said Secretary General Ban Ki Moon was “shocked” to learn about the deadly explosion on Monday night.

“We wish those injured a quick recovery. The United Nations is appalled at the loss of life of innocent civilians and hope that those responsible will be brought to justice. The United Nations in Thailand stands strongly with the Thai people during this difficult time,” the UN said in a statement.

The UN also wished the injured people a quick recovery and expressed condolences to families of the victims and to Thai people and the government.

In another statement, the United States, through National Security Council spokesman Ned Price, said it “condemns this deplorable act of violence.”

No one has claimed responsibility as of Tuesday morning.

US State Department spokesman John Kirby said it is “too soon to tell” whether is an act of terrorism, adding that there is “no information right now that would lead us to describe a cause.”

Both the UN chief and the US extended their condolences to those affected by the attack.

Singapore’s Ministry for Foreign Affairs (MFA), also condemned the bomb blast that killed a Singaporean.

ADVERTISEMENT

It said it was “saddened by the loss of innocent lives,” and conveyed its condolences to the victims’ families.

In the statement, the ministry also urged Singaporeans in the Thai capital to take precautions and avoid the blast site.

Singapore’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, in a posting on Facebook on Monday night, said his “thoughts are with” those affected by the blasts.

He said staff from the Bangkok Mission have met the Singaporeans injured in the incident, and are rendering assistance to them.

The European Union also has expressed its condolences to the families of the victims of the fatal blast.

Its spokesman said that the EU wishes a speedy recovery to all those wounded. “Our thoughts are with the people of Thailand at this time of shock and grief.”

RELATED STORIES

Death toll in ‘brutal’ Bangkok blast rises to 20; 125 hurt

PH gov’t denounces Bangkok bomb attack

Read Next