Singapore, Sep. 2, 2015 /PRNewswire-iReach/ -- Twenty entrepreneurs and business leaders from Singapore were named awardees of the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards 2015 at a glittering gala dinner at Singapore Marriott Hotel. Over 350 attendees were present, comprising of industry leaders, leading entrepreneurs, dignitaries and the who's who of the business world, including, Mr Seah Kian Peng, Deputy Speaker, Tan Sri Dr Fong Chan Onn, Chairman of Enterprise Asia and Dato' William Ng, President of Enterprise Asia.

The Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards, or APEA, is a regional recognition program organized by Enterprise Asia, the region's foremost association and think-tank for entrepreneurship. Awardees are expected to be torchbearers of entrepreneurship and business leaders in their respective countries.

The Awards is often compared to the Olympics for the stringent entry criteria and highly competitive judging parameters. Nominations itself is by-invitation, either by members or supporting associations. Nominees are then subjected to a series of rigorous tests, including financial verification by an appointed audit firm and a compulsory physical site audit, culminating in a secret balloting process by Enterprise Asia's organizing committee.

The final twenty were announced by Enterprise Asia at the awards ceremony in Singapore, where all winners were presented with their trophies and certificates by Mr Seah Kian Peng, Tan Sri Dr Fong Chan Onn and Dato' William Ng.

Among the recipients was Mr Sam Goi, Executive Chairman of Tee Yih Jia Group. Mr Goi, also known as the Popiah King of Singapore, was the highlight of the awards, receiving the top accolade. He shares,"I am honoured and humbled by this Lifetime Achievement Award. I want to dedicate this recognition to my team and family at Tee Yih Jia and GSH Corporation."

Now in its seventh year, the APEA Singapore recognizes entrepreneurs who contribute towards Singapore's intensifying economic development within the region.

Dato' William Ng explained, "The APEA is aimed at promoting entrepreneurship. Beyond recognizing the efforts of these entrepreneurs, we hope to encourage them to continue taking their businesses to the next level".

Poh Choon Ann, Group Chairman and CEO of Poh Tiong Choon Logisitics Limited shares that, "The award came timely as we celebrate Singapore's 50 years of independence this year. While PTC Logistics can be said to have contributed to Singapore's growth, the other side of the coin is true - we have had the good fortune of growing in tandem with Singapore. This award is not just for me but also a recognition of my colleagues' contribution to the growth of PTC Logistics."

The twenty truly deserving individuals were awarded under the Most Promising, Outstanding and Special Categories of the Awards representing various Industries and Focus areas. Many who receive these awards value the APEA as a milestone achievement:

Yun Ta Ming, Group CEO of CHASSasia says that, "This award provides the testament and affirmation to CHASSasia Group's core value – "SPIrIT" and determination to succeed in the region – To be the best in our field where we transform our customer's workplace through Information Technology."

While Chu Sau Ben, Executive Chairman and CEO of Libra Group says on a more personal note, "I am fortunate and grateful to have the support of business partners, colleagues and family members, who have helped me on this amazing journey and I would like to thank them for their support and confidence in us."

Goh Chuen Meng, Director of Hui Master International Geomancy Pte Ltd is grateful for his family, friends and business associates' participation on his journey. "To me, it is a journey that will never end; and we will continue to be a part of it together."

These entrepreneurs represent the driving force behind Singapore's progress who have experienced crossing hurdles, to building up their businesses, to being leaders in their respective industries and more. Neo Kah Kiat, Founder, Chairman and CEO of Neo Group Limited explains that, "Every day that you press forward with your business is only going to make it the best it can be. Dedication, drive, determination and integrity – a successful entrepreneur has them all."

RECIPIENT LIST OF APEA 2015 SINGAPORE

Special Category – Lifetime Achievement Award

Sam Goi , Executive Chairman, Tee Yih Jia Group

Outstanding Category

Pauline Goh , CEO, Singapore & South East Asia , CBRE Pte Ltd

John Cheng , Managing Director, Citus Trading Pte Ltd

, Chu Sau Ben , Executive Chairman & CEO, Libra Group Limited

, Neo Kah Kiat , PBM, Founder, Chairman & CEO, Neo Group Limited

Poh Choon Ann , Group Chairman & CEO, Poh Tiong Choon Logistics Limited

Chrisandra Heng , Director, SCA Design Pte Ltd (member of the ONG&ONG Group)

Johnny Manglani , President/CEO, UOMO Group

Most Promising Category

Alan Koh , Managing Director, Alric Projects Pte Ltd

Yun Ta Ming , Group CEO, CHASSasia ( Singapore ) Pte Ltd

Alex Tan , Managing Director, E.id Projects Pte Ltd

Chong Jin , Managing Director, Foh Foh Co. Pte Ltd

, Goh Chuen Meng , Director, Hui Master International Geomancy Pte Ltd

, Dutch Ng, CEO, i-Sprint Innovations Pte Ltd

Seah Kwee Hock , Founder, JS Denki Pte Ltd

Nina Alag Suri , Founder & Group President, Nastrac Group

, Mohammed Yahaya , Director, New Flint Offshore & Marine Pte Ltd

Jimmy Chua , Managing Director, Quantum Automation Pte Ltd

Kevin Xayaraj Tay , CEO and Executive Director, Sabana Real Estate Investment Management Pte Ltd

Larry Lim , Managing Partner, Summerhaus D'zign Pte Ltd

About Enterprise Asia and the APEA

Enterprise Asia is an NGO in pursuit of creating an Asia that is rich in entrepreneurship as an engine towards sustainable and progressive economic and social development within a world of economic equality. It works with governments, NGOs and other organizations to promote entrepreneurial development, in uplifting the economic status of people across Asia and in ensuring a legacy of hope, innovation and courage for future generations.

Launched in 2007 the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards are the region's most prestigious awards for outstanding entrepreneurship, continuous innovation and sustainable leadership. The Awards provide a platform for companies and governments to recognize entrepreneurial excellence, hence spurring greater innovation, fair business practices and growth in entrepreneurship.

www.enterpriseasia.org/APEA

Media Contact: Naina Bajaj, Enterprise Asia, +60378030312, n.bajaj@enterpriseasia.org

Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150901/262887

News distributed by PR Newswire iReach: https://ireach.prnewswire.com

SOURCE Enterprise Asia