SINGAPORE--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The National Arts Council has named Accenture (NYSE: ACN) the Distinguished Patron of the Arts and the SG50 Arts Patron, for the company’s contribution of technology and innovation to the arts and culture in Singapore.

As the National Gallery Singapore’s Innovation Partner, Accenture is utilising its global expertise in digital technologies to deliver a differentiated visitor experience at the Gallery. Additionally, Accenture Digital will deliver valuable insights into visitor patterns and preferences by analysing data from both online and in-Gallery visits.

Accenture was presented the two awards by Professor Chan Heng Chee, Chairperson of National Arts Council, at an award ceremony held yesterday evening at Capitol Theatre. The Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award is the highest honour accorded to an organisation, while the SG50 Arts Patron Award, in conjunction with Singapore’s Golden Jubilee, acknowledges corporations who have been instrumental in shaping Singapore’s arts scene.

"We are extremely honoured to receive the two awards from the National Arts Council as it is an important recognition of our role and contribution as the Innovation Partner of the National Gallery Singapore. These awards are especially poignant this year as we celebrate our 40th anniversary together with Singapore’s Jubilee year, strengthening our commitment to help improve the way Singapore works and lives,” said Teo Lay Lim, senior managing director for ASEAN at Accenture.

Commenting on the partnership with Accenture, National Gallery Singapore CEO Chong Siak Ching said, “It is critical that we adopt technology in innovative ways to engage our visitors and enhance their experience beyond the physical exhibitions into the virtual world. We are excited that the Gallery can leverage Accenture’s global expertise to enable our visitors to customise an immersive gallery experience for themselves, and also share their take about Singapore and Southeast Asian art across their social networks.”

The National Gallery Singapore will house the largest public collection of modern Singapore and Southeast Asian art from the 19th century to present day when it officially opens on November 24 this year. The Gallery will also further cement Singapore’s position as a regional and international hub for visual arts.

About Accenture

Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with more than 336,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the world’s most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$30.0 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2014. Its home page is www.accenture.com.