SINGAPORE — The Chinese government has blacklisted four of the Chinese tourists who staged a loud protest at a Bangkok airport in retaliation for a flight delay two weeks ago, SCMP reports.

A group of tourists refused to board a plane at the Don Mueang airport in Bangkok on Sept. 4, after a 10-hour flight delay. They were supposed to get on an evening flight which was delayed till the early hours of the morning, and vented their frustration with a loud rendition of the Chinese national anthem at the waiting area.

People's Daily reported that 30 people were arrested at the airport.

Now, four of the 30 people have been added to a list of 11 blacklisted travellers that can be viewed by police, customs and border control, as well as banks and credit institutions.

They aren't banned from flying, but airlines and travel agencies can refuse to serve them.

The State-run Xinhua News Agency hit out at the tourists singing the anthem, in a commentary published last week. It said flight delays are unpreventable, and people feeling that they've been treatled unfairly should put forth their complaints through the appropriate channels, and not use the country as a "shield".

The image portrayed by a country's people contributes to the image of the country as a whole, and Chinese nationals should try to appear humbler and be more aware of people around them, it said.

But while the tourists' behaviour has been condemned by officials, some people are more sympathetic to their plight.

A user on Weibo said the Internet has been one-sided in its coverage, and pointed out that the event could be seen as a show of solidarity.

Image: Weibo

Another user said singing the anthem was "effective" in bemusing authorities, but also noted that tourists going abroad should try not to shame the country.

Image: Weibo

Outside of the airport fracas, China also has a strong code of conduct around its national anthem. Beijing banned the singing of the national anthem at weddings, funerals or commercial areas in December. The Communist Party announced that singing the anthem at non-political celebrations violated "proper etiquette".