NOVEMBER 6 ― Why waste taxpayers’ money in executions when citizens can do the job themselves (and take greater pleasure in personally exacting revenge too)?

Sarawakian Kho Jabing, 31, was to have been executed in Singapore today for murdering a man.

Unfortunately, the labourer’s case had very little media attention in Malaysia. Local human rights groups did not seem to mount much of a campaign for Jabing either, with only some writing press statements (a little too late) over the past few days. Singapore’s Court of Appeal had sentenced Jabing to death 10 months ago in January.

Do Malaysian human rights NGOs not care for an impoverished blue-collar worker from Sarawak? Why was Jabing’s campaign spearheaded by a Singaporean group ― We Believe in Second Chances ― instead of a Malaysian group?

Malaysians should have gone all out in campaigning against his death sentence.

Sarawak minister Tan Sri Dr James Masing also said the state government would not intervene in the execution as it was inappropriate for Malaysia to interfere with the justice system in Singapore.

The Sarawak government’s stand is unsurprising. However, I would argue that there’s nothing wrong with interference to protect our own citizens if the law itself is unjust.

The verdict by Singapore’s Court of Appeal was split 3-2.

According to Amnesty International Malaysia, the two dissenting judges held that there was no evidence to prove with certainty that Jabing had hit his victim, another labourer, more than twice, which would represent a “blatant disregard for the sanctity of human life” ― a key factor in deciding whether or not to sentence him to death. The other three judges thought Jabing’s actions merited the death sentence.

Jabing was convicted of beating a China national with a piece of wood; the man later succumbed to his injuries, and Jabing sentenced to death in 2010.

Singapore reviewed in 2012 its mandatory death penalty laws. Jabing was resentenced to life imprisonment after the review, but Singapore’s Court of Appeal later sentenced him to death in the 3-2 decision when the prosecution appealed.

Malaysia has yet to review laws on capital punishment.

Oxford University professors Roger Hood and Carolyn Hoyle wrote in their book The Death Penalty: A Worldwide Perspective that it is not “prudent” to accept the belief that capital punishment in the US deters murder significantly more than the threat of life imprisonment.

A study, which compared Singapore (that had among the highest execution rates in the world in the mid-1990s) with Hong Kong( that abolished the death penalty in 1993), reportedly found that homicide trends were similar in both countries, with neither an increase in Singapore’s executions nor a steep drop after 1997 making any significant impact.

Let’s put aside the question of imposing the death penalty on drug traffickers. If we are to live by the “an eye for an eye” principle, then any other crime but murder should not be punished with death.

On whether the death penalty deters homicide, there is no conclusive research that points to a deterrent effect.

So we get to the so-called justice factor in the death penalty. If killing someone for killing another person is right, then in cases of theft, why doesn’t the State take equal amounts of money from the accused based on the amount stolen? Why not appoint an official to sexually assault a convicted rapist?

Steal a loaf of bread, and the State takes bread as punishment. Beat and rape a woman till she bleeds? The State should do the exact same thing to her rapist.

These examples illustrate how ludicrous the death penalty is.

Even Singapore’s principle in deciding death sentences on whether the accused showed disregard for the sanctity of human life is arbitrary. So, two strikes are okay, but three strikes are not?

What are the criteria for disregarding the “sanctity” of human life? If human life is indeed so sacred, then capital punishment shouldn’t be in the picture at all.

The sanctity of human life surely doesn’t depend on what a person has done, even if she has killed someone. It should be inherent from birth.

If we were to judge how sacred one’s life is based on their deeds, then not only murderers, but rapists, child abusers and corrupt politicians would rank at the bottom of the scale.

Killing someone with a clean gunshot to the head may be more merciful than bludgeoning him to death with a rock, but the fact remains that the victim ends up dead in both scenarios.

We shouldn’t kill more people in the name of justice.

*This is the personal opinion of the columnist.