SINGAPORE - A 23-year-old man pleaded guilty on Friday to participating in a brutal group attack on a 39-year-old man earlier this year, which left the victim being bedridden and with brain damage.

Ahmad Sholihin Mosa, who is unemployed, was convicted of voluntarily causing grievous hurt . He will be sentenced on Dec 1, after the prosecution asked for time to prepare submissions on an appropriate sentence.

The court had heard that at about 3.30am on March 6, Sholihin and three friends, Muhammad Syazwandi Abdullah, 16, Mohammad Zaidi Zahad, 17, and Mohammad Noor Helmi Mohammed Herman, 19, went to the 7-Eleven store at Block 201E Tampines Street 23.

The victim, Mr See Chien Hwa, tapped Helmi on the shoulder to ask for cigarettes. But Helmi said he had none and Mr See went into the store to buy a drink.

When he came out, Mr See slapped Helmi on the back. Helmi asked him why, but Mr See did not reply. He then went to sit on a bench and started shouting at the group.

Unhappy that he had shouted at them, Helmi took 10 tablets of nitrazepam - a drug used to treat anxiety and insomnia - before picking up an empty glass bottle and asking his friends if they wanted to assault Mr See. They all confronted the victim.

Helmi swung the bottle at Mr See's head, then kicked his upper body, causing him to collapse.

Syazwandi, Zaidi and Sholihin joined in, kicking and punching Mr See in the face, abdomen, groin and knee repeatedly.

They left him bleeding on the ground, but Helmi returned to punch him repeatedly again. A passer-by later saw Mr See on the ground, covered in blood with glass fragments around him, and called the police.

The court heard that Mr See suffered brain damage and remains unable to respond to verbal instructions. He is incapable of communicating verbally and physically.

A medical report in April said doctors are unable to guarantee his recovery. He was discharged from hospital last month, and has since been at a community hospital.

Helmi, Syazwandi and Zaidi had on Thursday pleaded guilty to grievously hurting Mr See.

Zaidi also pleaded guilty to a charge of theft, while Helmi admitted to charges of drug use, theft, committing a rash act, criminal intimidation and arming himself with a dangerous weapon.

Syazwandi and Zaidi will be sentenced in three weeks' time, pending a report on their suitability for the Reformative Training Centre, while Helmi will be sentenced in two weeks.

The maximum penalty for causing grievous hurt is 10 years' jail, with fine and caning.