GRIEF: A man paying his respect outside the Le Carillon restaurant the morning after.

On Nov 6, a Russian plane carrying 224 people crashed in the Sinai peninsula in Egypt.

Nobody survived the crash. Investigators believe a bomb was smuggled on board.

One day before the attacks in Paris, suicide bombers carried out one of the bloodiest terror attacks in Beirut, Lebanon, killing about 50 people and leaving more than 150 injured.

Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has claimed responsibility for these attacks.

Speaking after Friday's carnage in Paris, Dr Rohan Gunaratna of the S Rajaratnam School of International Studies, said: "The coordinated simultaneous multiple attacks against French civilians are inspired and instigated by ISIS.

"The brutality of executions mirrors ISIS mindset and methodology, and diffusion of ideology and practice."

WHY RUSSIA?

The downing of the Metrojet Airbus came soon after Russia launched its campaign against ISIS in Syria and Iraq.

WHY LEBANON?

ISIS targeted Shia Muslims, the supporters of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. ISIS is made up of Sunni Muslims opposed to President Bashar.

WHY FRANCE?

The attacks come just one week after President François Hollande announced that France will be deploying an aircraft carrier in the fight against ISIS.

There was also underlying tension in France itself with the Muslim migrant population, said Dr Gunaratna.

"The scale and magnitude of the attacks demonstrate the continuing threat of terrorism stemming from radicalised and militarised segments of the French diaspora and migrant communities driven by the developments in North Africa and the Middle East.

"Unless the underground terrorist support infrastructure facilitating attacks is dismantled, France is likely to suffer more attacks."

Until recently, the concern had been on returnees who had gained experience fighting in Syria and Iraq. But the call to establish a grand caliphate resonates with many around the world, even those who have not travelled to fight with ISIS.

Instead, they wage war at home.

Dr Gunaratna said Europe is also likely to suffer more attacks because groups will be influenced by the success of the French attacks.

WHY SINGAPORE?

In a statement yesterday, Mr K. Shanmugam, Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for Law, said Singapore has raised its alert level, stepping up security measures and border checks.

A group in Indonesia, which swore allegiance to ISIS, had announced Singapore as a target earlier this year.

The threats are not empty and can hit close to home, warned experts.

In April, Malaysian authorities nabbed a cell with explosives targeting Putrajaya and the federal Parliament.

Singapore may also be targeted because of the firm stand it takes against the militant group, said Mr Masagos Zulkifli last year. He was then Senior Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs.

Singapore is a member of a multinational coalition formed to combat ISIS.

WHAT NEXT?

Dr Gunaratna warned that there is the potential for an overreaction in France and Europe following the deadliest attack in France since World War II.

"The attacks will call for robust laws in preventive detention and other tough measures especially curbing Muslim migration," he said.

"To secure Europe, there will be greater political will but there could be a government overreaction, too."

It is likely the French will fight back and will play an enhanced role in international efforts to stabilise conflict zones from Syria, Iraq, Libya and other Middle Eastern and African conflict arenas, he added.

"It is not the first time innocent civilians have been massacred like this in this troubled world. But each time it happens, we again feel appalled and outraged beyond words, for an attack like this is in fact an attack on our shared humanity. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families, and to the people and government of Paris and France."

- Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong