Kho Ah Yeow got into a shouting match with his victim in June last year, which led to Kho splashing the remains of his leftover fishball noodle soup at his victim. Kho was later stabbed in the abdomen by his victim.

SINGAPORE: A 59-year-old man was sentenced to three months' jail on Wednesday (Jan 6), for splashing a mug of hot oil and water at his neighbour during a dispute.

At Community Court, District Judge Mathew Joseph called the case "unusual", because the accused, Kho Ah Yeow, sustained more severe injuries than his victim, Mr Bounty Gill, also 59.



Advertisement

LEFTOVER FISHBALL NOODLE SOUP WAS USED TO BURN VICTIM

The court heard that on Jun 25, 2015, at about 2.41pm, Kho left his unit to buy lunch when he saw Mr Gill along the corridor at their block at Jalan Bukit Merah.

Kho then confronted Mr Gill, asking why the latter had knocked on his door so many times in the morning. Mr Gill denied doing so, and both got into an argument and were heard shouting at each other. At this point, their neighbour, Mr Ismail Bin Idris, 56, called for the police.

The accused then returned to his unit and took a metal mug containing hot oil and water left over from the fishball noodle soup that he had consumed earlier. He approached Mr Gill at the corridor again and splashed the contents of the mug at him.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Mr Ismail said the mug had steam emitting from it, and the hot oil and water landed on Mr Gill's face and body. Mr Gill shouted in pain, and his face and body became slightly red.

Mr Gill then returned to his unit to retrieve a 20cm-long knife, and used it to stab Kho's abdomen a few times.

For his actions, Mr Gill is expected to be charged at a later date.

KHO: "MY INJURY IS MORE SEVERE THAN THE VICTIM'S"



In mitigation, Kho, who was unrepresented, said that his injury was more severe than his victim's.

The prosecution said Kho was hospitalised from Jun 25 to Jul 20, 2015. Kho claimed to have been in the Intensive Care Unit for "about two weeks", and had three surgeries.

According to the victim's medical report, the victim was admitted to the Singapore General Hospital (SGH) on Jun 25, 2015 and found to have sustained mild erythema on his face, and scattered blisters and mild second degree burns on his body. He was discharged two days later on Jun 27.

Kho also mentioned that he had also been engaged in community work since the incident, and pleaded for a light sentence.

PROSECUTION: KHO HAS BEEN PUNISHED, BUT STILL CULPABLE



Deputy Public Prosecutor Michelle Lu said that the prosecution did not dispute that Kho had suffered more serious injury than the victim in this case, and had taken this into consideration that he had already "suffered some punishment" in their proposed sentence.

But the accused's culpability lay in the fact that he was the first to attack and provoke the victim, DPP Lu added.

The prosecution asked for Kho to be given a jail term of three to five months, which is on the "lower end of the range".

In similar cases in the past, the sentences have ranged from three to nine months' imprisonment, DPP Lu said.

In sentencing, the judge said that while Kho had also been "unfortunate" in this incident, the court did not condone his actions and what he did in attacking his neighbour was "inexcusable". He said he hoped that Kho would learn from the experience.

Kho's sentence is backdated to when he was first remanded on Nov 19, 2015. He could have faced a maximum punishment of seven years' imprisonment, a fine, caning, or any combination of such punishments.