Tew Yee Jeng, 40, has also been disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences and driving any motor vehicle in Singapore for five years upon his release from prison.

SINGAPORE: Malaysian Tew Yee Jeng was on Tuesday (Jan 12) sentenced to 44 months in jail for recruiting people to deliberately cause traffic accidents and making false insurance claims for property damage and bodily injuries.



Tew, 40, has also been disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences and driving any motor vehicle in Singapore for five years upon his release from prison.

Advertisement

He had earlier pleaded guilty to three counts of abetment by conspiracy to cheat, one count of abetment by conspiracy to provide false information to a public servant, and one count of reckless driving.



The court found that Tew had made several trips to Singapore between 2012 and 2014 “for the sole purpose of committing these offences”, District Judge Shaiffudin Saruwan said.



Tew recruited several drivers and instructed them to abruptly slam their brakes on purpose, causing the vehicles behind them to crash into the rear of the car. Using this modus operandi, Tew and his accomplices submitted almost S$105,000 in motor insurance claims. About S$18,300 was disbursed to them in 2012.



Judge Shaiffudin noted that Tew had “played the central role in the whole illegal enterprise … he was the conductor; he orchestrated each and every move of the other actors”.



Advertisement

Advertisement

The judge also called the case “more egregious than others”, as Tew “exposed innocent road users to great risk of personal injury and property damage” by deliberately involving them in collisions.



Two of Tew’s accomplices have been sentenced to eight months’ jail and disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences and driving any motor vehicle in Singapore for 30 months.



The cases of another two accomplices – Tay Chee Long and Helen Kiu – are still before the courts. Three other accomplices are still at large.