Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Foreign Affairs Minister Vivian Balakrishnan also wrote to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and German Foreign Affairs Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier respectively.

SINGAPORE: President Tony Tan Keng Yam, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Foreign Affairs Minister Vivian Balakrishnan have written to their Turkish counterparts to condemn the terror attack in Istanbul, said Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) on Wednesday (Jan 13).

In his letter to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Dr Tony Tan said he was "shocked and deeply saddened" by the incident and extended deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of those that died in the bomb blast at Sultanahmet Square.



"Singapore condemns this act of terror which has resulted in the loss of innocent lives. We stand in solidarity with Turkey and its people during this difficult time," he wrote.

Advertisement

Prime Minister Lee expressed similar sentiments in his letter to Turkish counterpart Ahmet Davutoglu, saying Singapore stands with Turkey against the global threat posed by terrorism. Mr Lee also said he was shocked to hear of the "heinous attack".

Writing to Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlut Cavusoglu, Dr Balakrishnan called the attack "senseless". "We must remain resolute in fighting this terrorist threat," he added.

Eight out of the 10 people who died in the blast were Germans. Prime Minister Lee and Dr Balakrishnan wrote to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs Frank-Walter Steinmeier as well, offering condolences.

"Singapore strongly condemns this reprehensible act of terror which led to many deaths and injuries among innocent tourists," Mr Lee wrote. "It is a painful reminder of the danger that terrorism poses to the international community. We must remain vigilant and steadfast in fighting this terrorist threat."

Advertisement

Advertisement

He added: "I am confident that the German people will overcome this tragedy with resilience."

In his letter to Dr Steinmeier, Dr Balakrishnan said Singapore strongly condemns the "heinous attack" that claimed many German lives, and wished the injured a "speedy recovery".