The evolving nature of recruitment in this age of globalisation necessitates not only hiring policies but also state-of-the-art systems that help HR practitioners easily track candidates and build a better experience for prospective new hires.

The Asia Recruitment Awards, Asia’s only regional awards show dedicated to celebrating excellence in HR recruitment and talent acquisition, will honour organisations which best leverage technology to achieve their recruitment goals.

The Asia Recruitment Awards is open to Asia’s best in-house HR teams and recruitment agencies.

According to Aditi Sharma Kalra, regional editor of Human Resources magazine, the category for the effective use of technology is seeking accomplishments that break traditions.

“There are many HR teams and recruitment agencies which are taking advantage of digital tools and social media but how do they stand out and compete to attract the best talent out there?”

Last year’s winner of the Best Use of Digital Media in Singapore was Deutsche Bank while Best Recruitment Technology went to BASF, which took the gold prize, and Spencer Ogden, which grabbed the silver award.

The Best Career Website – In-House gold award was received by BASF and the silver by SAP.

For the Recruitment Agency category, winners of the Best Career Website were Michael Page (gold), Aspire (silver) and RMG Selection (bronze).

ALSO READ: Airbnb, ANZ, Zalora join Asia’s premier recruitment awards

At the Asia Recruitment Awards 2015 in Malaysia, the recipients of the Best Career Website were CnetG, Careertour and JobStreet.com, Forefront International and Astro.

Accenture grabbed the gold award for the Best Use of Digital Media, followed by Maybank, which won silver, Media Prima and Forefront International which both took home bronze.

The Best Use of Recruitment Technology Award was shared by two firms, Accenture, which brought home the gold award, and Forefront International, which won the silver award.

Leading the Best Recruitment Innovation category was Jobstreet.com, followed by Accendo winning the silver award and Hanodale Technologies and Manpower sharing the bronze prize.

Singapore’s brightest HR teams last year at Asia Recruitment Awards were Citibank, which grabbed the gold award for the Best Recruitment Innovation for In-House teams, Maybank, which took home the silver award and Spencer Ogden Energy and Abbott Laboratories which both won the bronze prize.

On the other hand, the Best Recruitment Innovation for Recruitment Agency shined the spotlight on Jobstreet.com (gold), Robert Walters and AYP Group (silver) and Aryan Search (bronze).

Other awardees were GroupM, which brought home the gold award for Best Career Website for In-House teams, Changi Airport Group, which grabbed the silver prize and Singapore Telecommunications, which received the bronze award.

Their counterparts in the Recruitment Agency category were Michael Page, which got gold, Jobstreet.com and Aspire which received the silver award and Renaissance Management Services which went home with bronze.

Certis CISCO Security was hailed the best in using digital media for the in-house category.

The silver award of the Best Use of Digital Media went to Accenture and JobsDB while the bronze went to the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA).

“Recruitment technology is a critical category because it reveals the level of a company’s commitment to innovation,” said Sharissa Chan, regional producer at Human Resources magazine.

“The Asia Recruitment Awards jury will evaluate finalists based on innovative use, popularity and reach, cost-efficiency and how the entire system is carried out to fulfil both recruitment and business objectives.”

The list of past Asia Recruitment Awards winners features the most respected companies in the area of people strategy & management such as Abbott Laboratories, Accenture, ANZ Bank, Astro, BASF, BNP Paribas, British American Tobacco , Cargill, Cisco CERTIS Security, Citibank, Dell, Deloitte & Touche, Deutsche Bank, GroupM, GSK, J Walter Thompson, Le Meridien Hotels, L’Oreal, Marina Bay Sands, Maybank, Media Prima, Novartis, SAP, Singapore Telecommunications, Swiss Re, and VMWare, among others.

In addition, some of the recruitment agencies which have been recognised for their excellent work includes 33 Talent, Aspire, Bo Le Associates, Capita, Charterhouse Partnership, Eilliot Scott, Kelly Services, Manpower, Michael Page, RGF, Xpand Group and many more.

To participate in Asia’s only search for the best in recruitment and talent acquisition, please visit www.asiarecruitmentawards.com or contact one of the following members of the Human Resources magazine team:

– Singapore & Malaysia: Seraphine Neoh, seraphinen@humanresourcesonline.net or Tel: +65 6423 0329

– Hong Kong – Angela Tong, angelat@humanresourcesonline.net or Tel: +852 2861 1882