Muhammad Shazwan Sapuwan raped a 16-year-old student and extorted money from her boyfriend when he was a full-time police national serviceman.

SINGAPORE: A 23-year-old former police officer has been sentenced to 18 years’ jail and 15 strokes of the cane for raping a 16-year-old student in 2014, while her boyfriend looked on, scared and helpless.

Muhammad Shazwan Sapuwan, a full-time police national serviceman at the time, pleaded guilty on Monday (Feb 1) to charges of rape, sexual assault, outrage of modesty and extortion.

Advertisement

Another five charges for sexual assault, extortion and cheating were taken into consideration during sentencing.

The court heard that on the afternoon of Oct 24, 2014, Shazwan had secretly followed the victim and her boyfriend, both 16-year-old Institute of Technical Education students, to a Teck Whye Lane HDB block, where the couple engaged in sexual acts at the seventh floor staircase landing.

Shazwan quietly watched them from the level above, and took two sexually explicit photos of the couple.

He then confronted them, telling the couple he was a police officer and that he would have to report them for the offence of “public nudity”, because his colleague had recorded evidence of the pair engaged in sexually intimate behaviour.

Advertisement

Advertisement

The victim cried and begged Shazwan to let them go, as she did not want to be brought to the police station and questioned, for fear of her parents finding out about the incident.

Shazwan agreed to let them go – on the condition that the couple allow Shazwan to use his mobile phone to record the victim performing oral sex on her boyfriend.

Shazwan told the couple he would use this video recording to extort money from them should he lose his job, as he was risking his job by letting them go.

Fearful that Shazwan would submit the photos and video recording to police, the couple complied.

In what prosecutors called a “lawless and brazen” abuse of his authority, Shazwan then made the victim perform oral sex on him, before he raped her.

The victim’s boyfriend was in tears at this point, the court heard, and the victim was “too afraid and traumatised” to stop Shazwan.

Shazwan later told the victim’s boyfriend via WhatsApp that he had lost his job, and asked the student to “help” him. The 16-year-old transferred S$40 to Shazwan’s bank account.

Three days after the rape, the victim confided in her friends, who confirmed Shazwan’s identity using his Facebook profile, and encouraged her to report the matter to the police.

Prosecutors on Monday said Shazwan had committed these crimes “under the colour of his office”, “and that his actions had “tarnished and undermined the hard-earned reputation of trust and responsibility of the Singapore Police Force”.

Although Shazwan was off-duty when he committed the offences, he had used his status as a police officer to create a “shroud of fear” over his victims that “compelled them into compliance”, Deputy Public Prosecutor Sellakumaran Sellamuthoo said. He urged the court to sentence Shazwan to 18 years’ jail and between 12 to 15 strokes of the cane.

In a statement submitted to court, the victim stated that she felt “humiliated, shameful and degraded”, and also feels “sad and embarrassed” for what she went through. She has also since broken up with her boyfriend.

The prosecution also noted that Shazwan had targeted two other couples before, using the same modus operandi – by taking sexually explicit video recordings of the couple before using it to extort them for money.

Shazwan’s lawyer Ravinderpal Singh told the court his client is genuinely remorseful, and had in fact apologised to the victim and her boyfriend on the day of the incident, “well before there was any mention of reporting (him) to the police”. Mr Singh also urged the court to impose the minimum sentence on his client, saying the “very considerable number of strokes” Shazwan would suffer is “already sufficiently punitive and deterrent”.

Speaking in court on Monday, Shazwan said he was sorry for his actions. “I would like to apologise to everyone, especially the victim … I can’t forgive myself” he said, also apologising to his family, who was present in court.

In sentencing Shazwan to 18 years’ jail and 15 strokes of the cane, Judicial Commissioner Foo Chee Hock said: “I leave this case with the strong hope that he will make use of all the opportunities moving forward to turn his life around.”