Construction worker Palaiyan Murugadass and his 38-year-old girlfriend, a domestic helper, had been in a relationship for about two years before she broke up with him. He then decided to "teach her a lesson".

SINGAPORE: An Indian national was sentenced on Thursday (Feb 11) to four years’ jail and nine strokes of the cane for slashing his girlfriend’s throat, face and wrist after she ended their relationship.

Construction worker Palaiyan Murugadass and his 38-year-old girlfriend, a domestic helper, had been in a relationship for about two years before she broke up with him. Unwilling to accept her decision, the 41-year-old man called his girlfriend 20 to 30 times a day, but all his calls went unanswered, the court heard.

Advertisement

He then decided to lie in wait for her at the void deck of her employer’s home in Tampines, armed with a penknife to “teach her a lesson”.

When he spotted his girlfriend returning home about two hours later, Palaiyan threatened: “You playing me, you playing me, you will see, I will kill you.”

But the woman ignored him and walked away. Palaiyan pursued her and used the penknife to slash her throat, face and wrist before throwing the weapon into the bushes and fleeing.

A witness called the police, and the injured woman was taken to hospital where she was resuscitated and underwent a tracheostomy. The attack has left her permanently disfigured, the court heard.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) Daniel Marini urged the court to impose a sentence of four years’ jail and nine strokes of the cane in light of the serious injuries sustained by the victim.

He also pointed to Palaiyan’s intent to cause hurt to his former lover and the high degree of premeditation involved. He had armed himself with a penknife, waited more than two hours for her to return home, and threatened to kill her before slashing her with the penknife, APP Marini said.

For the offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt with a weapon likely to cause death, Palaiyan could have been jailed for life, or up to 15 years and fined and/or caned.