During investigations in 2013, Chng Leng Khim's three pet dogs were found to be emaciated and infested with ticks, says the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore.

SINGAPORE: A 43-year-old Singaporean woman was on Tuesday (Feb 23) sentenced to 10 days' jail for two counts of animal cruelty.



Chng Leng Khim was also fined S$1,500 for being uncooperative in the investigation as well as an additional S$1,600 for two counts of failing to license her pet dogs, according to the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore (AVA).

Advertisement

In a press release, AVA said it was informed by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) Singapore on Jun 13, 2013, that there was a stray black poodle at Paya Lebar Crescent.

What the poodle looked like before and after AVA's rescue. (Photos: AVA)

Chng, who was established as the dog's owner via its microchip, asked for assistance to have her pet "rehomed" when she was alerted. AVA began investigating for animal cruelty after observing that the poodle was emaciated and infested with ticks, and found that Chng had two other pet dogs - a Chow Chow and a bullmastiff - that were also "neglected, thin and tick-infested".

Advertisement

Advertisement

AVA said it cared for the three dogs while investigations were still ongoing. It added that the bullmastiff "developed severe health issues" and had to be "humanely put down", while the other two were successfully rehomed in February 2014 with the help of animal welfare group Voices for Animals.

Chng Leng Khim's bullmastiff had to be "humanely put down" due to "severe health issues", says AVA. (Photo: AVA)

"AVA would like to remind the public that animal cruelty is an offence," said AVA. "A pet is a lifelong commitment and potential owners should seriously consider the many responsibilities involved before getting a pet."

Those found guilty of animal cruelty may be fined up to S$15,000 and/or jailed up to 18 months, or both for the first offence. Second and subsequent offences may incur a maximum S$30,000 penalty or three years in jail, or both.