Digital agency VML has announced a number of new hires in Singapore, bringing in RP Singh as head of regional media, Alex Guimares as projects director, and Camila Martins as director of consumer insights and analytics.

The announcement:

VML Singapore has strengthened key leadership across multiple service verticals, welcoming RP Singh as Head of Regional Media, Projects Director Alex Guimares, and Camila Martins Director Consumer Insights & Analytics Singapore.

Leading VML Singapore’s regional media team, RP Singh brings with him 15 years of digital and new media experience. He is tasked with growing VML’s paid media practice, in terms of both revenue and expertise. Singh has played a key role in shaping the digital fortunes of many brands including P&G, Lufthansa, Pepsico, Tourism New Zealand, HSBC and Ford. Having been involved in multiple award winning campaigns across APAC, he is also a renowned digital marketing trainer. Over the last 5 years he has trained over 2,000 marketers, and has mentored ‘The Curious Digital Marketer’ publication. He also chairs Content Marketing Summit Asia, the region’s first ever & largest content marketing conference.

Alex Guimaraes will lead the charge on Projects for VML regionally, coming with extensive program management experience across geographies like Brazil, Norway and Singapore. Having worked on leading technology projects for IBM, he then led projects and delivery teams across organisations such as Johnson & Johnson and BBDO. At VML he will lead the delivery teams, build & improve project processes and manage profitability of projects across the organisation.

Joining as Head, Consumer Insights & Analytics Singapore, Camila Martins has a Master’s in data mining and computational math coupled with an MBA. She has 6 over years’ experience in data driven business consulting companies, having worked at Accenture and on projects ranging from CRM strategy to consumer segmentation for cosmetic clients, to loyalty programme ROI analytics.

Martins is passionate about data and insights and believes that good teams can get anything done Tripti Lochan, CEO VML South East Asia & India said, “2016 is a big year for us, as we eye rapid growth across our geographies. To do this successfully, our people are our strongest asset. With RP, Alex and Camila on board, I am confident we have started this year very much on the front foot.”