Singapore jails Australian journalist Ai Takagi for 10 months for sedition

Posted

The South-East Asian Press Alliance is alarmed Singaporean authorities have sentenced a pregnant Australian journalist to 10 months in prison for sedition.

Key points: Takagi was the Australia-based editor of The Real Singapore website

The site was shut down after she was arrested while visiting Singapore in 2015

Takagi pleaded guilty to four charges including fabricating some stories

Ai Takagi, 23, was the Australia-based editor and owner of The Real Singapore website which enjoyed huge popularity but was shut down after she and her Singaporean husband Yang Kaiheng, 27, were arrested while visiting the island last year.

Singaporean authorities accused the couple of trying to "incite anti-foreigner" sentiments.

"She's broadly been accused of promoting feelings of ill will and hostility, although the number of articles themselves that appeared to have done that is not that many," said Associate Professor Joseph Fernandez, who teaches media law at Curtin University and has been following the case.

"Somewhere I read it was about four articles — and the one that really tipped the balance against her was when she named a particular ethnic group as being responsible for causing some disturbance at a Hindu festival."

Takagi pleaded guilty to four charges including fabricating some stories.

Associate Professor Fernandez said it was surprising Takagi did not realise she was sailing close to the wind.

"It doesn't take long for one, whether you live in Singapore or whether you are in neighbouring country, to know that Singapore and freedom of speech are not really compatible," he said.

Excessive sentence will have 'chilling effect' on other journalists

However, Associate Professor Fernandez said 10 months in prison seemed excessive for something that could not be quantified in terms of actual harm and taking into account the fact Takagi is pregnant.

"Looking back at earlier instances when the sedition provisions were used, people have been given much lighter sentences including probation and severe reprimand, so this is one of the more severe instances of punishment for breaching that act," Associate Professor Fernandez said.

Takagi's husband Yang Kaiheng pleaded not guilty to similar charges as his wife and is due to appear in court next week.

No other journalists are currently in prison in Singapore, but Associate Professor Fernandez said Takagi's sentence would having a chilling effect on other journalists in the country, especially those working for the dozen or so independent news websites.

"There's no doubt that the authorities in Singapore decided to make an example of Ai Takagi and they went for the jugular, picked the most severe of the laws," he said.

The South-East Asian Press Alliance said it was rare for Singaporean journalists to be charged with sedition.

The Alliance's executive director Ed Legaspi said normally journalists were charged with defamation or other softer charges.

"It's more common for the online journalists, bloggers, to run into the law for some reason or another, because they are the ones that are giving vent to the more controversial, the more provocative issues in the context of Singapore and its politics and society," he said.

Mr Legaspi said the Singaporean Government had been trying to regulate news websites because they do not really fall under the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act.

Topics: information-and-communication, print-media, courts-and-trials, singapore, australia