ORCHARD ROAD, SINGAPORE, Mar 24, 2016 (Marketwired via COMTEX) -- Luxury at Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel means more than fine service. At the iconic hotel in Singapore, luxury is the embodiment of brilliant experiences. With the unveiling of its new Executive Lounge, the property is poised to bring even more of those experiences to its guests, as it sets out to showcase the highest levels of comfort and exclusivity in a new, contemporary designed space.

"Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel is constantly reviewing our products and services to ensure that we not only meet but exceed the expectations of all our guests," said Simon Bell, General Manager of Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel. "The Executive Lounge is the ideal choice for travelers who expect more than just the ordinary. With this in mind, our Management Team had worked closely with Tang Holdings and renowned designer Mark Ormsby Interiors, to create a luxurious sanctuary that is functional and comfortable, yet exquisite. We strived to create one of the most brilliant home-away-from-home experiences at the Executive Lounge by offering the ultimate in luxury," added Simon.

The property's Executive Lounge exudes opulence, with many of its features showcasing the hotel's trademark blend of style and modern day comfort.

-- A chic interior design with modern designer furnishings and bold hues of cream, green and brown excite the senses, while the warm glow of Singapore's tropical light highlights breathtaking panoramic views of Orchard Road through the lounge's expansive windows.

-- A spacious sanctuary for sophisticated guests, the newly refurbished lounge spans an expanded space of 2,888 square feet, with a seating capacity for over 90 guests, to cater to the growing number of luxury and business travelers who prefer a premium experience.

-- The lounge offers one 79-inch LED television and three 55-inch LED televisions, state-of-the-art sound system, fully-equipped work stations, Wi-Fi, as well as fax, scan and photocopy services to transform the work of business travelers into pleasure.

-- The Chef's Pantry is a richly appointed area at the end of the Lounge that tantalizes the palate with some of the finest cuisine among Orchard Road Singapore restaurants, including a breakfast buffet, cocktails and all day refreshments, with an open kitchen concept.

To celebrate the launch of the newly refurbished Executive Lounge, the hotel has created a new Executive Room Package packed with an array of privileges for guests to enjoy, including access to the Executive Lounge, a bottle of champagne and luscious chocolates, SGD50 Marriott Cafe dining credit, 10% off spa treatments at The Retreat, and more. Make your bookings today at http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/sindt-singapore-marriott-tang-plaza-hotel/ with promotional code CL9.

Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel

Strategically located in the heart of Orchard Road and just above Orchard MRT Station, guests of Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel enjoy brilliant experiences with a comprehensive array of hotel amenities and facilities, from the newly refurbished Executive Lounge to poolside cabanas. Relax in style amidst luxury furnishings in contemporary rooms and suites, and indulge in gastronomic pleasures at five award-winning restaurants and bars encompassing Cantonese and international delicacies, exciting tipples, and more. Host your next meeting, wedding or social event in Singapore with expansive venue spaces including a pillarless Grand Ballroom and a team dedicated to bringing your greatest imagination to life. No visit to Singapore is complete without exploring the area; the hotel's location on Orchard Road puts you right in the centre of it all -- just moments from TANGS Orchard, Sentosa Island, Marina Bay, and other popular attractions.

Image Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=2983420

CONTACT: Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel 320 Orchard Road Singapore 238865 Singapore +65-6735-5800 http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/sindt-singapore-marriott-tang-plaza-hotel/

SOURCE: Singapore Marriott Tang Plaza Hotel

(C) 2016 Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.