Sharjah's Hamriyah Free Zone recently organised seminars in Malaysia and Singapore to attract more investors and foreign investment to the free zone.



The seminar touched on various opportunities and facilities offered by Hamriyah Free Zone, said a statement.



The delegation, led by Saud Salim Al Mazrouei, director of Hamriyah Free Zone Authority (HFZA) and Sharjah Airport International Free Zone, explained ways of cooperation and ways to strengthen one's business during the road shows in the two countries, it added.



The trip was aimed at promoting HFZ’s investment and business potential and to present the vast range of opportunities available to foreign companies in the free zone, it said.



The delegates held a series of meetings with over hundred entrepreneurs from business and investment sectors in Kuala Lumpur. The KL seminar, titled ‘Capturing trade and investment opportunities in the UAE’, was organised in association with the Federation of Malaysian Manufactures.



In Singapore, the event which was held in association with Singapore Business Federation and attracted a number of businesspersons.



Al Mazrouei stated that, in addition to the development of quality projects, HFZ’s mission is to promote the investment opportunities and business strengths of HFZ, to encourage and attract investors from Malaysia and Singapore, and offer the necessary facilities and incentives for foreign investors by adopting global best practices and removing obstacles.



He added: “This tour is part of HFZA’s business promotion strategy. Investor-friendly legal framework and the highly developed transport net-works which allow easy access to local and international markets were highlighted during the seminar.”



“The flexibility of investment regulations and the tax-free investment scheme, as well as Sharjah’s modern infrastructure and geographical position, are all elements that were received with a great deal of interest from investors during the talks,” he concluded. – TradeArabia News Service