The 52-year-old man beat another unconscious with a beer bottle in November 2014 during a brawl at a coffeeshop in Geylang.

SINGAPORE: A 52-year-old man was jailed for eight months on Monday (Apr 4) for using a beer bottle to beat a 31-year-old man unconscious in November 2014.

Ho Wee Kee also pleaded guilty to an unrelated charge of disorderly behaviour for being part of a large crowd which became aggressive and cornered several police officers in a Geylang alleyway in July last year.

Advertisement

Prakash Narayanan had been having supper with two friends at a Geylang coffeeshop when he accidentally bumped into Ng Lai Seng, 56. An argument broke out and Ng retrieved a metal pole.

Ho, Ng’s friend, told him to put the weapon down. Ng did so, but continued to shout at Mr Prakash and his friends. The fight escalated and Ho smashed a beer bottle on Mr Prakash’s head. The victim fell to the floor unconscious. It was later discovered he had sustained a nasal bone fracture.

Ho also smashed a beer bottle on the victim’s friend’s head. Several other men then joined in to kick and punch Mr Prakash and his friend, who managed to get away and call the police.

Ho was sentenced to six months’ jail for assaulting the victim. Another charge for causing hurt to Mr Prakash’s friend was taken into consideration during sentencing.

Advertisement

Advertisement

Ho was involved in another run-in with the law in July last year. Around 9pm on Jul 24, five police officers arrested 18-year-old Harold Ho Kuo Lung for vice-related activities. Harold resisted arrest, and a large crowd of about 80 to 100 bystanders gathered to watch the commotion in the Geylang alleyway.

The crowd became agitated and shouted at the police officers to release Harold. Ho, who had been part of the crowd, had joined in shouting vulgarities and gesticulating aggressively at the officers.

The officers were eventually cornered, with their backs against the wall. Out of fear for his safety, an officer drew his gun and pointed it at the crowd in an attempt to disperse them. One person in the crowd “challenged (the officer) to shoot him”, Deputy Public Prosecutor Stephanie Koh said.

Ho, who has a previous conviction for disorderly behavior, was sentenced to two months’ jail.

In total, Ho was sentenced to eight months’ jail. He could have faced up to 10 years’ jail and caning for the beer bottle assault, and up to one year’s jail and/or fined up to S$5,000 for disorderly behaviour.