Wei Kiong Lew, 29, appeared in the Dunedin District Court on April 12.

A killed motorcyclist's widow cried when she heard a Singaporean driver was travelling 120kmh before the fatal crash.

Wei Kiong Lew, 30, was driving a rental car when he crossed double yellow lines into the path of six vehicles near Hampden, south of Oamaru, on November 29.

Motorcyclist Craig Alan Chambers, 39, of Motueka, died at the scene. He had attended the Burt Munro Challenge in Invercargill.

James Gunn Motorcyclist Craig Alan Chambers died after a southbound car collided with oncoming traffic south of Oamaru.

READ MORE:

*Inattention to blame for crash, police say

*Foreign driver accused of fatal smash pleads not guilty

Lew appeared before Judge Kevin Phillips in the Dunedin District Court on Tuesday.

The court heard Lew, who cried during the reading of the summary of facts, was holidaying in New Zealand with his partner.

On the day of the crash he was driving his rental car from Oamaru towards Dunedin, when he drove across yellow lanes into the opposite overtaking lane.

A series of vehicles swerved to avoid him, clipping the wing mirror of a motorcyclist and another vehicle.

Four other other vehicles were struck, including Chambers' Harley Davidson.

The court heard Lew was travelling at 120kmh at the time of the crash and did not brake. At this, Nicola Chambers, who was seated in the public gallery with supporters, broke down.

Lew's partner was airlifted to Dunedin Hospital, and returned to Singapore on December 19 for further treatment.

Lew did not dispute the facts. He offered no explanation for his driving.

The Singaporean, who works as a senior analyst at the Energy Market Authority, had previously pleaded not guilty to dangerous driving causing death and three charges of dangerous driving causing injury at his January 26 appearance.

He pleaded guilty on alternative charges of aggravated careless use of a motor vehicle causing death, and aggravated careless causing injury (x3).

He was convicted of all four charges

"He has acknowledged his responsibility," Judge Phillips said.

He noted that the widow of Chambers opposed his conviction on lesser charges.

Lew is to appear for sentencing on June 3.