Singapore Exchange (SGX) today welcomed China Star Food Group Limited to Catalist under the stock code '42W'.

China Star Food is a food products company specialising in the production and sale of sweet potato snacks. The company's main business operations are located in Fujian province, and its sweet potato snack food products include sweet potato cookies, candies, pastries and preserved foods, produced specially from purple and orange-fleshed sweet potatoes. The snacks are sold mainly to distributors and wholesalers, who distribute via e-commerce portals and supermarkets, petrol kiosks, convenience stores and specialty stores throughout China.

Mr Liang Chengwang (梁承 旺), Chief Executive Officer, China Star Food Group Limited, said, 'China Star Food Group Limited has reached another major milestone with its listing on the SGX Catalist. We would like to thank everyone for their support. We believe the listing will raise the profile of the Company as one of the leading manufacturers of healthy food snacks in the PRC.'

Mohamed Nasser Ismail, Head of Equity Capital Market (SME) and Head of Capital Market Development, SGX said, 'We are pleased to welcome China Star Food to Catalist, as the company embarks on further expansion. Given the size of China's consumer market coupled with the company's focus on food quality and safety, China Star Food will ride on the market's growth prospects, underpinned by an increasingly affluent middle class that demand healthier snack options. China Star Food also plans to export its products to key Asian markets such as Japan, and we look forward to partnering the company in its growth vision.'

'Besides bringing a fast-growing healthy snack food manufacturer to Catalist, this listing also comes with detachable warrants, giving shareholders who participated in the listing an option to increase their shareholding in the company within two years of its listing,' he added.

The listing of China Star Food brings the total number of companies on Catalist to 179, with a combined market capitalisation of S$9 billion.

China Star Food opened at $0.23 today.