See Chee Keong pleaded guilty on Wednesday (Apr 20) to one count of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for stabbing the victim, Leong Fook Weng, in the heart on May 17, 2000.

SINGAPORE: A man, wanted in Singapore for killing another man 16 years ago, has been sentenced to 10 years’ jail.

See Chee Keong pleaded guilty on Wednesday (Apr 20) to one count of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for stabbing the victim, 36-year-old Leong Fook Weng, in the heart.

Advertisement

On May 17, 2000, Leong’s body, clad only in underwear, was found bruised and bloodied at a vacant plot of land along Kheam Hock Road.

The High Court heard Wednesday that See had been having supper with four friends – Robson Tay, Ong Chin Huat, Lim Hin Teck and William Ho – before the men, all secret society members, decided to assault Leong.

Lim had said he was “unhappy” with Leong because the latter owed money to him. See called the victim to find out where he was, and drove the quintet to Boon Keng, where Leong was attending a wake.

They confronted him, but after Leong claimed he was also a secret society member and agreed to return the money, the quintet let up and agreed to meet Leong’s “headman” – Tay Kim Guan.



Advertisement

Advertisement

But after receiving the money, Tay turned Leong over to the quintet, saying Leong was not a member of his secret society. The men pounced, assaulting Leong and dragging him into See’s car when he tried to escape in a taxi.



Lim and Robson Tay continued to assault Leong in the car while See drove the men and Leong to a vacant plot of land along Kheam Hock Road.



See joined in the assault, and used a 5cm-long blade to fatally stab Leong in the neck and chest, causing him to collapse.



Lim then stripped Leong and stole his wallet before leaving the body, clad only in underwear, at the scene before they fled.



See escaped to Thailand on May 18, 2000 – one day after the killing. He was arrested later that year in Cambodia, where he was jailed 18 years for drug trafficking. But after being royally pardoned, he was released in November 2013 and deported to Singapore.



Deputy Public Prosecutor Anandan Bala urged the court to impose a sentence of 10 years’ jail on See, highlighting that the killing “took place against the backdrop of secret society involvement”. DPP Anandan said the assault was a “brutal and prolonged” one, and that the victim had been “unarmed and outnumbered”.



The DPP said the rib fracture Leong sustained is testimony to the ferocity of the beatings he received at the hands of the men. DPP Anandan singled See out as the "most culpable of the group”, having upped the ante by stabbing Leong in the heart.

“Hooliganism should not be condoned and a strong message must be sent to deter such conduct,” he told the court.

See’s lawyer James Bahadur Masih said eight years’ jail would be sufficient punishment, considering See “led a miserable life” while on the run, spending nearly 13 years in a Cambodian jail for drug trafficking. Mr Masih said all See had intended to do was to “teach (Leong) a lesson”.



See’s eldest daughter and ex-wife submitted letters to the court, pleading for leniency on his behalf. She said she remembered her father to be “caring and loving”, and that she welcomes him to live with her family upon his release from prison. See now has a grandson, she added.

His ex-wife said See was “always a good father” to their three children, now aged 25, 23 and 22. See cried in the dock as these letters were read to the court.

In 2003, Robson Tan was jailed nine years with 12 strokes of the cane, and co-accused Ho was jailed six months. Ong and Lim also fled the country after Leong’s killing, and remain at large.



For culpable homicide not amounting to murder, See could have been jailed for life, or up to 10 years. As he is above 50 years old, he cannot be caned.