An Indian temple trust was among nine patrons awarded in for lending its exquisite century-old deity jewellery on loan for 10 years to Indian Heritage Centre and helping provide "greater insight" into Indian culture.

The jewellery which includes a necklace made of rubies, emeralds, and a gem-studded crown was loaned by Saigon Chettiars Temple Trust and came from Thendayuthapani Temple which was established 200 years ago in Saigon (Ho Chi Minh City).

"The Saigon Chettiars Temple Trust has strengthened the IHC's storyline with its loan of beautiful deity jewellery, which gives us greater insight into the many perspectives of Indian culture," said Singapore's Minister of Culture, Community and Youth Grace Fu, who gave away distinguished supporter of heritage award to the trust.

The jewellery is on loan for 10 years, said Ashwin Muthiah, who represented the trust at the award ceremony held yesterday.

The jewellery came from Nagaratas, also known as Nattukottai Chettiars, sometimes in 1900 or before for deities at the The Thendayuthapani temple, established about 200 years ago, said Muthiah, executive chairman of AM International Holdings Pte Ltd.

The High Commission of India in was given a "Supporter" award for donation of Bronze Busts of Indian Leaders to the Indian Heritage Centre (IHC).

Former President S R Nathan was also awarded for contributing a 'Group of Indian National Army Related Photographs and Publications'.

Shirin and Rustom Ghadiali were also honoured for lending Parsi Silver Ritual objects andSarjit Singh for offering Collection of Artefacts pertinent to the Sikh Police and Armed Forces in Singapore and Malaya.

Others honoured with awards were R Gangatharan Davar, Leaena Tambyah and Gayatri Roy for their contribution and lending of Indian artefacts from their ancestors to the IHC.

Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong inaugurated the IHC on May 7 last year in the heart of Little India, a colourful, thriving neighbourhood that caters predominantly to the Tamils and Chinese.

Blending both traditional and modern Indian architectural aspects, the IHC celebrates many contributions of the Indian community to Singaporean society.