CHENNAI, India, April 27, 2016 /PRNewswire/ --

Edsix Brain Lab incubated by IIT Madras RTBI and supported by IIM Ahmedabad's CIIE started on 14th November and students from 24 states across India from 200+ cities had participated in the contest. Students from 2000+ schools across India had eagerly participated for competing in the brain skill contest. The contest is aimed at assessing core brain skills and has five modules to test memory, visual processing, focus and attention, problem-solving and linguistic skills - the most sought after 21st Century skills.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20160427/801923 )



The Finals of the Super Brain Challenge successfully completed on 7th Feb 2016.

It's a great milestone achieved, as this is a first of a kind and India's Largest Online Brain Game Contest ,introducing children to brain stimulating games conducted across India where the Round I and the Finals were both conducted online.

The Super Brain Challenge received a great response from across India and saw participation from 200 cities across 24 states. 6500+ Students from 2000+ schools studying in Classes 1 to 12 spread across India enthusiastically participated.

The contest received overwhelming responses and many users, parents and some of the well-wishers, experts in the Field have given feedback about the contest site being World Class and the Contest games very challenging and exciting to play.

The entire Contest process has been validated by our Process advisors Ernst & Young (EY) - a multinational professional services firm & also the number one professional services brand in India.

After verification and validation process the results are announced in our website www.skillangels.com & https://thesuperbrainchallenge.com

Following are the Grand Prize winners :

Winner Trip to NASA USA - Jaya Harihara Pranav -Std XI- Bannari Amman Vidhya Niketan Sathyamangalam Tamil Nadu

Winner trip to Universal Studios Singapore - Siddarth Venkatasubramanian - Std VI - Sri Kumaran Children's Home (CBSE), Mallasandra Campus

The award ceremony was conducted in an Impressive manner on 24th April at Anna Centenary Library Auditorium in Kotturpuram Chennai. Padma Shri Dr. Mayilswamy Annadurai Director of ISRO Satellite centre graced the occasion as Chief Guest inspiring and enlightening the young minds with his speech. The children and parents were excited and happy to hear from the outstanding scientist of India.

Sri.S. Abhaya Kumar Executive Director Strides Shasun Ltd,and Dr. K.R Maalathi a renowned educationist and CEO of Auuro Educational services were invited as Guests of Honor. They encouraged the students & parents with their words and insisted on the importance of Skill development for the overall development of individuals for success in career and life and urged the importance of the Aptitude learning coming in as part of Mainstream curriculum.

Over 300+ Prize winners from the Contest had come over from all over India participated in the event and enjoyed the program\ sharing their happiness interacting with other participants from the event. The prizes ranging from ipads, Laptops, Tablets, Bi Cycles and Science Activity kits were given away to the winners. For the prize winners who were not able to attend in person the program, their prizes will be sent across to their place.

Educationist from across the states including principals of schools, management from various education institutions participated in this gala event and encouraged the students. More than 1000 people participated in the program making it a huge success.

Please check out more details on our website www.skillangels.com & https://thesuperbrainchallenge.com, www.facebook.com/skillangels

About Skill Angels

Skill Angels exists to transform the students of our classrooms into the employees of our work spaces. A team of education visionaries, development experts and clinical psychologists have come together to go that extra mile, alter the average education experience and create champions of tomorrow. Skill Angels works in the assessment and training of Aptitude skills.

So far, Skill Angels has helped students to complete more than 8 lakh minutes of Gamified Aptitude Training & Assessment and helped them solved 17 Lakh Plus Puzzles.

Media Contact

Badri Narayanan

Chief Evangelist

+91-9840264006

