The video will start in 8 Cancel

Get daily news updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Four drunken thugs have been locked up after beating an elderly British couple and their son unconscious in Thailand because they accidentally spilled a drink.

Rose Owen, 65, was punched and kicked to the ground along with her husband, Lewis, 68, and son, Lewis Jr, 43, during the cowardly street attack in April.

When the battered grandmother tried to sit up, she was immediately knocked unconscious by a horrific kick to the jaw, which snapped her head backwards.

She suffered a build-up of fluid in the brain that had to be removed by surgeons, while her spouse and son needed multiple stitches for their head injuries.

Shocking CCTV footage of the attack, which later went viral online, captured the trio lying spread-eagled on the ground after being repeatedly kicked and stamped on.

(Image: youtube)

Now, four men have been jailed for a combined total of eight years after admitting to carrying out the savage assault in the popular tourist resort of Hua Hin.

Suphattha Baithong and Yingyai Saengkhamin, both 32, and Siva Noksri and Chaiya Jaiboon, both 20, were originally sentenced to four years behind bars.

Read more: 'Desperate ISIS terrorists launching rockets from INSIDE family homes so rebels don't fire back'

However, their sentences were cut in half after they confessed to physical assault causing severe injury, the Bangkok Post reports.

As a result, they have each been locked up for two years.

Rose and Lewis, who travel to Thailand every year to visit their son, who lives in Singapore, were enjoying the Thai New Year festivities on the day of the attack.

But they were attacked after their son accidentally bumped into one of the thugs, apparently causing a drink to be spilled, it is reported.

He was pushed to the ground and as Rose tried to intervene the gang laid into the trio.

Read more: Family stunned as husband felled by one punch on night out gives thumbs up after SIX MONTHS in coma

Police chief Chaiyakorn Sriladecho said shortly after the assault: “All four suspects have been arrested.

"They say they are sorry and say they wouldn’t have done this if they weren’t drunk.

“The attack started when the son ­accidentally bumped into one of the Thai men.

"The hospital is still holding Rose for observation for serious head and eye injuries.”

The suspects were paraded by police in front of the media after their arrests.

Read more: 'Psycho' knifeman jailed for repeatedly stabbing two women after forcing them to stage degrading sex acts

Following the horrifying attack on April 13, the Owens' daughter Ceri Venables, 38, said at the time: “My parents are in hospital abroad. It is very upsetting.”

Neighbour David Cannan, 72, added: “This is a terrible shock I know how much they love the Thai people and this would be the last thing they would have expected to happen.

(Image: Facebook)

“I went with them a few years ago and it was fantastic. I can’t think what went wrong because this is a really nice place.

I only hope they will be ok and will come back to us soon. Everyone is very worried.”

Rose and Lewis, who run an electrical engineering company near Cardiff, Wales, were pictured arriving at a Thai court last month to testify against their attackers.

Their son has returned to Singapore, where he works as a graphic designer.