After the rape, Ow claimed that he had fought with the ghosts that were haunting her flat. — File pic

SINGAPORE, July 5 — Two years after she was raped by a medium whom she thought could help get rid of “ghosts” in her flat, she still has flashbacks of the incident, and is afraid to go out alone.

The rapist, Ow Siew Hoe, had taken advantage of his victim’s “fear of the occult”, leaving her with lasting emotional trauma that she still struggles to overcome, said the prosecution.

Yesterday, Ow, also known as Ow-Yong Siew Hoe, 49, was sentenced by the High Court to 12 years’ jail and 12 strokes of the cane, in line with the sentence sought by the prosecution.

In Feb 2014, the 35-year-old woman, who worked as a sales assistant, thought her flat was haunted.

She sought advice from her mother-in-law, who told her that her sister knew a “powerful master” — Ow — who could help her.

On Feb 20, Ow inspected the woman’s flat and told her that the flat faced a direction which was “not auspicious” for that year, and there were “dirty things” that could come into the flat from that direction.

Five days later, the woman went to Ow’s flat to collect items for her “protection”, and he also gave her some “holy water” to drink.

When she experienced stomach discomfort, Ow said the “holy water” was working and was clearing the “dirty things” in her body.

When she became drowsy and giddy, Ow raped her despite her efforts to push him away in her weakened state.

After the rape, Ow claimed that he had fought with the ghosts that were haunting her flat.

He claimed he had hurt two ghosts after negotiations with them had failed, and needed his sperm to save the two ghosts. If the ghosts were not saved, the woman or her husband could die, he said.

Two days later, after talking to her friends, the woman made a police report. Ow was arrested the next day.

Yesterday, the prosecution told Justice Chan Seng Onn that the victim was “exploited, robbed of her right to say ‘no’, violated, and then left with lasting emotional trauma that, till this day, she struggles to overcome”.

“The facts of this case are also unique in that they take place against a backdrop of superstition and the supernatural,” said deputy public prosecutor David Khoo, adding that Ow had preyed on the victim’s “fear of the occult by presenting himself as someone who could save her and rid her home of evil spirits”.

“The victim wholeheartedly believed and trusted the accused (Ow) the offences were not only premeditated, but also involved an abuse of trust, and makes the offences all the more heinous,” he added.

Highlighting several aggravating factors, Khoo said Ow “took advantage of the victim’s weakened state”. For instance, when the woman tried to push Ow away, she had shown her lack of consent.

However, Ow refused to stop and continued violating the victim, said DPP Khoo.

“The accused has shown a complete disregard for the victim’s right to say ‘no’ in order to fulfil his carnal desires,” he added.

The court also heard that the victim felt fine before she arrived at Ow’s flat.

Although there is “no conclusive evidence” that Ow had drugged her, the prosecution urged the court to “draw the necessary inferences from surrounding facts”.

For example, traces of Dormicum, a sleeping pill, were detected in a stone pestle and mortar seized from his flat, as were several packs of Xanax, a sedative.

A medical report in February this year showed that the woman experienced symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder in 2014 due to the rape. Although her condition has improved since the birth of her son, she still experiences “occasional flashbacks and low mood”.

The victim also told the doctor that she still fears going out alone and being in crowded places.

She also continues to experience “intrusive memories” whenever she is not distracted by chores.

“What is clear is that the offences have left a lasting psychological impact on the victim that even two years later has not fully healed,” said Khoo.

Ow could have been sentenced to 20 years’ jail, and a fine or caning. — TODAY