SINGAPORE: Four Bangladeshi workers detained in Singapore in April under the Internal Security Act (ISA) were sentenced to between 24 and 60 months for financing terrorism.

The four are Rahman Mizanur, 31; Miah Rubel, 26; Md Jabath Kysar Haje Norul Islam Sowdagar, 31; and Sohel Hawlader Ismail Hawlader, 29. They had pleaded guilty to their crimes on May 31.

They were earlier charged with providing or collecting money to fund terrorist acts in Bangladesh.

Ringleader Rahman was sentenced to 60 months' jail. Sohel was given 24 months while Miah and Jabath each got 30 months.

All the sentences will be backdated to May 27, the day the men first appeared in court.

Asking for deterrent sentences, the prosecution pointed out that the accused men have caused public disquiet and were funding one of the most dangerous terrorist organisations in the world: IS.

It had asked for 60 months for Rahman, 30 months for Miah and Jabath, and 24 months for Sohel.

The four were part of a group of six charged under the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act (TSOFA) – the first time the Act has been used for prosecution.

The other two – Zzaman Daulat, 34 and Mamun Leakot Ali, 29 - have denied the charges and are claiming trial.

Court documents had shown that the men had clearly defined roles. They were led by Rahman, with Mamun as the group's deputy leader.

Miah was in the group’s financial council, while Jabath handled the group's media.

Zzaman and Sohel were in the group's security and fighter councils respectively.

Miah and Jabath were also accused of possessing money for terrorist purposes.

Court documents also showed that Jabath was in possession of $1,360 (RM4,024) – this includes a sum of $1,060 (RM3,137) that he was handed by Miah last month.

In all, the six had contributed sums of $60 (RM177) to $500 (RM1,479) to the cause.

The six were among eight men arrested between late March and early April this year. Working in the marine and construction industries, they called themselves the Islamic State in Bangladesh (ISB).

They were planning attacks back home in hopes of toppling their government.

Their goal was to set up an Islamic state in Bangladesh and bring it under the self-declared caliphate of the Islamic State (IS) terror group. – The Straits Times/Asia News Network