As of now, there are no reports of Singaporeans injured or directly affected by the incident, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

SINGAPORE: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) on Saturday (Jul 23) condemned the “vicious” shooting attack in Munich, Germany, which left at least nine dead and 16 injured, saying it was "shocked and saddened by the loss of innocent lives".

An 18-year-old German-Iranian gunman opened fire in a busy shopping mall in the German city on Friday evening, in the third attack against civilians in Western Europe in eight days.

Advertisement

In a Facebook post on Saturday, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said he was shocked to learn of the shooting and condemned the “senseless act”.

“We have seen so many brutal terrorist attacks in recent months, one after another. We are at risk of becoming numbed, and have to remind ourselves of the terrible human tragedy each time,” he wrote.

“Our thoughts are with the people of Germany during this time and our deep condolences to the victims of the families.”

Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Vivian Balakrishnan said he was “saddened by yet another vicious attack on innocents".



Advertisement

Advertisement

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those who have lost their loved ones to this attack. We hope that the injured will have a speedy recovery,” he wrote.

NO REPORTS OF SINGAPOREANS INJURED

As of now, there are no reports of Singaporeans injured or directly affected by the incident, MFA said.

“MFA has verified the safety of all registered Singaporeans in Munich. For those in Munich who have not e-registered with MFA, please remember to let your family and loved ones know that you are safe,” Dr Balakrishnan said.

The Singapore Embassy in Berlin is also in contact with the local authorities to ascertain whether there are any Singaporeans affected by the attack, the ministry said.

“Singaporeans in Munich are advised to exercise vigilance, follow the instructions of the local authorities and monitor the local news for the latest updates,” it said.

Singaporeans who require consular assistance should contact the Singapore Embassy in Berlin or the 24-hour Ministry of Foreign Affairs Duty Office at: