Prema S Naraynasamy, 58, and her daughter Gaiyathiri Murugaiyan, 36, are accused of causing the death of a 24-year-old woman at Block 145 Bishan Street 11.

SINGAPORE: Two women were on Thursday (Jul 28) charged with murder at a public housing block in Bishan.

Prema S Naraynasamy, 58, and her daughter Gaiyathiri Murugaiyan, 36, were accused of killing Myanmar national Piang Ngaih Don at the family's ninth-floor Bishan flat sometime between Jul 25 and 26, the charge sheets stated.



Advertisement

Channel NewsAsia understands that the victim was the two's foreign domestic helper, and that her body was found with multiple bruises indicating that she was abused. Both women were expressionless when the charges were read out.

The police had said in a separate press release on Thursday that they received a call for assistance at Block 145 Bishan Street 11, at about 11.03am on Tuesday. Upon arrival, officers found a 24-year-old woman motionless, and she was pronounced dead at the scene.

If convicted of murder with common intention, the women face the death penalty or life imprisonment. The next mention for the case is on Aug 4.

There have been at least four other murder cases in the past month, with the victims including a 52-year-old man found dead at Geylang Lorong 23, a 31-year-old woman whose remains were found at Lim Chu Kang, a 42-year-old man found dead outside a Jalan Besar pub and a 55-year-old man who was pronounced dead after an incident at a pub along Boat Quay.



Advertisement

Advertisement

FOREIGN DOMESTIC EMPLOYEES IN "UNIQUELY VULNERABLE" POSITION: CDE

In response to the incident, chairman of the Centre for Domestic Employees (CDE) Yeo Guat Kwang said in a Facebook post that the centre was "deeply saddened" to hear of the death of Ms Piang Ngaih Don, who had been working in Singapore for about a year. "On behalf of the Labour Movement, CDE offers our heartfelt condolences to her family during this very trying period," he wrote, adding that CDE trusted the authorities to bring justice to light and would work closely with the authorities on how to offer help and support to the victim's family.

Mr Yeo said the centre understood and empathised with the fact that foreign domestic employees were in a "uniquely vulnerable" position and said they are deserving of greater care and concern from employers.

"With our growing and ageing population, Singapore’s dependency on foreign domestic employees will rise. Thus, there is an urgent need for all relevant stakeholders – employers, employment agencies, the Government and non-governmental organisations – to collectively ensure fair recruitment and employment practices, and safe and healthy working environment for our foreign domestic employees," he said.

Those who know of domestic employees who may be in distress can call CDE’s 24-hour helpline at 1800 2255 233.