Indonesia has nabbed another suspect who was planning a terror attack on Singapore from the island of Batam.

SINGAPORE: Indonesia has arrested another terror suspect in Batam for allegedly plotting to attack Marina Bay in Singapore, the Antara News Agency reported on Sunday (Sep 4).

The suspect, a 24-year-old unemployed man, was arrested by counter-terrorist personnel at a cyber cafe in Batu Aji, Batam, on Saturday, police spokesman Agus Rianto was quoted as saying.

Advertisement

According to local media reports, Riau Islands police chief Sam Budigusdian told reporters at a press conference that the suspect, identified as Leonardo Hutajulu (LH) in his confession, said he planned to travel to Singapore to accept a job in a cleaning-service provider; a position offered to him by his mother’s friend.

The man is believed to be part of the KGR@Katibah GR, a group headed by Gigih Rahmat Dewa, who is alleged to be behind the plot to attack Marina Bay from Batam, which is just a short distance across the Singapore Strait. The group is said to have links to Syria-based Islamic State (IS) militant Bahrun Naim, who has encouraged attacks on Singapore.Bahrun is believed to be one of the masterminds of an attack in January in central Jakarta, in which eight people were killed, including the four attackers.

“LH was part of the group that was plotting an attack on Marina Bay,” said Mr Agus, the Antara News Agency reported. "He also underwent training using airsoft guns as preparations to go to Syria."

Riau islands police Chief Sam Budigusdian said Leonardo would have travelled to Singapore through Batam Centre’s International Port to carry out the attack, and had even mapped out the elevation angle in Singapore to be around 12 kilometres.

Advertisement

Advertisement

“They have mapped the angle of elevation for their attack from Nongsa in Batam City,” said Mr Sam, “and measured elevation in the outermost islands".

The network reportedly chose to train in Nongsa, because it was “relatively close to Singapore, about 20 kilometres away,” he said.

Police are currently investigating the type of role Leonardo would have played, had he successfully travelled to Singapore.

“He could be monitoring or studying the situation at Marina Bay,” said Mr Sam.



In response to queries, Singapore's Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said it has been in touch with our Indonesian counterparts on the case. "We have nothing further to add at this juncture,” MHA stated.

In August, Indonesian anti-terror forces arrested six men on suspicion of planning a rocket attack on Singapore. The six arrested were also allegedly from terrorist group KGR@Katibah GR.

Police also seized bomb-making materials, guns, and arrows from suspects' homes in the raid on Aug 5. But police said there were no signs that the rocket attack was anything more than a plan.

The suspects are currently being investigated at special counter-terrorism squad Densus 88's headquarters for their involvement in Islamic State's Indonesian terror network.