Hazel Francis Ngubeni allegedly smuggled a bag of cocaine while working as a cabin attendant for South African Airways, according to a report by South Africa's Sunday Times.

SINGAPORE: South Africa's High Commissioner to Singapore Hazel Francis Ngubeni spent two years in a US prison from 1999 to 2001 for smuggling a bag of cocaine while working as a cabin attendant for South African Airways (SAA), according to a report by South African newspaper Sunday Times on Sunday (Oct 2).



The Times said SAA confirmed last week that Ms Ngubeni, 55, who at the time went by the name Francis MacDonald, was dismissed after her arrest in New York.



Advertisement

"She was arrested, convicted and sent to jail, which made her unable to render any service to her employer," it quoted SAA spokesman Tlali Tlali as saying.



When Channel NewsAsia contacted Mr Tlali on the case, he referred to Ms Ngubeni by yet another name, saying: "Ms Francis Louw was once in the employ of South African Airways and her employment with the airline has since terminated."

According to the South African newspaper, Ms Ngubeni admitted the conviction but claimed she had been wrongfully jailed after a "strange bag was found in my luggage".



The Sunday Times also said that Ms Ngubeni had previously been arrested on Sep 20, 1995 at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, South Africa.



Advertisement

Advertisement

She was charged with smuggling 9kg of heroin into South Africa from Thailand, also while employed as a cabin attendant for SAA, but was acquitted in January 1997 after a key witness – reported to be a diplomat from Mozambique – refused to testify against her, said the report.



The report said that when confronted with the allegations, Ms Ngubeni initially refused to comment but later admitted she had been arrested at OR Tambo in 1995. She had been "implicated because I had asked a colleague to carry my bags", she said. "Unbeknown to me he was given another bag by someone I knew."



South African Department of International Relations spokesman Nelson Kgwete reportedly told the Times that his department would "look into all the matters ... and will work with all relevant state agencies to establish facts. The security vetting process for all our diplomats is a process that the relevant agencies are constantly reviewing with the intention of improving to avoid gaps and discrepancies."



According to the newspaper, Ms Ngubeni left South Africa for Singapore on Apr 17, 2013 and her security clearance was issued three months later, on Jul 21, 2013.



The Times said Ms Ngubeni denied having a criminal record when she was being vetted by the State Security Agency for the diplomatic post.



A senior source at the department was quoted as saying that Ms Ngubeni would never have been deployed had she declared her criminal record.



Records at the department note that Ms Ngubeni was nominated to her position by "senior political leadership", the report stated.



Ms Ngubeni presented her credentials to Singapore President Tony Tan Keng Yam on Apr 25, 2013. According to the curriculum vitae (CV) provided at that time, she "assisted (South Africa's) Department of Education with training/testing and collection of statistics" from 1998 and 2002, a period that includes her alleged jail term in New York.



Her CV also describes her employment at SAA from 1991 to 1999 as "Occupational Health Nursing", with no mention of her holding a position as cabin crew at the airline.

When contacted, the South African High Commission in Singapore declined to comment, but revealed that Ms Ngubeni was currently in South Africa.



Channel NewsAsia has sought comment from South Africa's Department of International Relations and Cooperation.