"She’s forced to carry out behaviours which are causing problems to herself and her family, all the people around her," one expert witness testified.

SINGAPORE: A housewife who starved her domestic helper has been diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) as well as an eating disorder, a District Court heard on Wednesday (Oct 5).

Chong Sui Foon, and her husband, Lim Choon Hong, were both found guilty in March of starving Ms Thelma Oyasan Gawidan, who lost almost 20kg in 15 months.

Advertisement

A three-day hearing is being held ahead of the couple’s sentencing for both sides to debate the bearing of Chong’s mental illnesses on her offending behaviour.

Two psychiatrists testified for Chong’s defence on Wednesday. Both said her failure to provide Ms Thelma enough food stemmed from her diagnoses of OCD and an eating disorder – the common denominator being an overbearing need for control, the court heard.

Chong, 47, was obsessed with cleanliness and excessive control to the extent that she would dictate what, when and how much her husband, children and maid ate, psychiatrist Dr Lim Yun Chin said.

The second expert witness, Dr Rasaiah Munidasa Winslow, testified that although Chong knew her actions were hurting her family, she was unable to control herself.



Advertisement

Advertisement

Asked by Chong’s lawyer whether the prospect of a jail term was enough to deter her, Dr Winslow said it was not. “She’s in a jail of her own anyway. She’s forced to carry out behaviours which are causing problems to herself and her family, all the people around her.”

ILLNESSES MUST MANIFEST IN 'CONSISTENT' WAY: DPP



While Chong force-fed her husband and children with takeaway food, Ms Thelma was given slices of white bread and instant noodles to eat twice a day for over a year, the court heard.

Ms Thelma had said she was constantly hungry and asked Chong for more food, but Chong often refused.

The court heard Chong fed Ms Thelma bread or instant noodles because these would not "dirty" the house and could be consumed quickly, leaving Ms Thelma more time to clean.

Prosecutors say Chong’s OCD and eating disorder did not cause her to deprive the maid of food.

Deputy Public Prosecutor Tan Soo Tet questioned why Chong would force-feed her family but starve Ms Thelma.

“She invested the time and effort to provide different food for (her family) … but she did not do so for Ms Thelma. Can you provide a clinical explanation for that?”

DPP Tan added the effects of Chong’s illnesses, logically speaking, “must be consistent … must manifest in the same way to (everyone) and can’t be selectively applied in a discriminatory way.

“(Chong’s) impulse was to control her family members and maid. But she hasn’t shown an impulse to deprive her family members of food”, the DPP pointed out. “In fact, it was quite the opposite. She force-fed her family.”

Institute of Mental Health psychiatrist Dr Stephen Phang will testify for the prosecution on Thursday.