Get daily news updates directly to your inbox Subscribe Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A young Israeli soldier found guilty of killing a wounded Palestinian attacker has been jailed for 18 months, sparking fury amongst grieving relatives.

Last March medic Sergeant Elor Azaria was nearby when two Palestinians stabbed and wounded another soldier who was part of his patrol.

One attacker was shot dead by troops and another, Abd Elfatah Ashareef, was merely wounded but 11 minutes later he was shot in the head by Azaria, then 19.

The case attracted huge controversy because 21 year-old Ashareef had been incapacitated and unable to attack again before being finally killed.

A three-judge military court convicted Azaria of manslaughter last month, a crime that carries a maximum 20-year term.

(Image: Barcroft Media)

Prosecutors had asked for a three-to-five year sentence, noting the soldier had shot an assailant who had carried out an attack only minutes earlier.

Israeli Jewish society is split in half over whether any Palestinian attacker should be killed on the spot.

Passing an 18-month sentence, the court said Azaria had “taken upon himself to be both judge and executioner” and had not expressed regret for his crime.

(Image: AFP)

But it said it was passing a lighter sentence than requested partly because it had been Azaria’s first combat experience and his record had been unblemished up until then.

Ashareef’s father Yusri said afterwards: “They are laughing at us,” and the Palestinian government said the trial gave Israel a “green light” to carry out executions.

At his trial, Azaria said he believed the Palestinian, though motionless, still posed a danger because his knife was nearby, and that he might have been carrying explosives.

(Image: Barcroft Media)

After pulling the trigger he was quoted as saying at the scene: “He deserves to die.”

There was no immediate comment from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is on an official visit to Singapore and Australia.

Shortly after Azaria’s arrest, the right-wing leader took the unusual step of calling the soldier’s family to express his sympathy.

Israeli Defence Minister Avigdor Lieberman said on Facebook that the “terrorist had come to kill Jews and everyone must take this into account.”

In the courtroom, in a military base in central Tel Aviv, Azaria’s family and friends sang Hatikva, the Israeli national anthem, after the judges left.

Azaria, confined to his camp during the trial, was ordered to begin serving his sentence on