Year in Infrastructure 2017 Conference Being Held in Singapore, a City Recognized Globally for BIM Advancements

Bentley Systems, Incorporated, a leading global provider of comprehensive software solutions for advancing infrastructure, today announced its call for submissions to the 2017 Be Inspired Awards program. The awards, which are judged by independent juries of industry experts, recognize infrastructure projects for BIM advancements that improve project delivery and/or asset performance. The deadline for submission entries is May 1, 2017.

The Be Inspired Awards are an integral part of Bentley’s Year in Infrastructure 2017 Conference, which takes place Oct. 10-12 in Singapore at Sands Expo and Convention Centre at Marina Bay Sands, one of the most iconic buildings in Asia. The structural design of Marina Bay Sands was done by Arup and was the 2010 Be Inspired Award winner for Innovation in Structural Engineering.

All Bentley users are invited to enter their projects in the Be Inspired Awards program, no matter what phase the project is in – preconstruction/conceptual, design, construction, or in operations. The three finalists chosen for each Be Inspired Awards category will win a trip to Singapore to attend the conference, as a guest of Bentley Systems. The finalists will present their projects in the Be Inspired Awards finals portion of the conference before the judges, industry thought leaders, and more than 100 members of the media.

The 17 Be Inspired Awards categories recognize BIM advancements in the following categories, several of which are new this year:

Bridges

Buildings and Campuses

Construction

Environmental Engineering

Manufacturing

Mining and Offshore Engineering

Municipal Operations

Process and Power Plants

Project Delivery

Rail and Transit

Reality Modeling

Roads

Road and Rail Asset Performance

Utilities and Industrial Asset Performance

Utilities Transmission and Distribution

Water and Wastewater Plants

Water Networks

The conference will also feature several new Industry Forums, which include:

Buildings and Campuses

Industrial

Rail and Transit

Roads and Bridges

Urban Systems

Utilities and Water

Richard Ruth, product manager, services, Danfoss, said, “Our company was honored to be recognized at the 2016 Be Inspired Awards for our innovations in asset performance and energy management. Both the conference and the awards were outstanding opportunities to learn from extraordinary projects and technology innovations from around the world, and the networking opportunities throughout the conference were excellent. We also thought it very valuable to have our project evaluated and benchmarked against peers and competitors in the industry. We hope to submit several nominations for the 2017 Be Inspired Awards and attend the conference in Singapore!”

Paul Baron, principal/Pacific business group manager, GHD, said, “I felt like a winner before I even came up to the stage -- simply being at the event and surrounded by so many outstanding project nominees was inspiring! We are extremely proud that our project in Advancing Construction Management was among the nominees honored at the 2016 Be Inspired Awards. We also appreciated the interest from the global media in our company and in our innovative use of technology. To have our project recognized on a global stage in front of our peers, industry leaders, and members of the media was humbling. We look forward to submitting again this year.”

Every Be Inspired Awards nomination receives significant and valuable recognition across the global infrastructure community. Through the Be Inspired Awards program, participants:

gain global recognition by having their infrastructure projects profiled in Bentley’s Infrastructure Yearbook, which is distributed in print and digital formats to nearly 150,000 key media, government, and industry influencers around the world; in addition, all winners, finalists, and project nominees are featured on Bentley’s User Project Profiles website page;

by having their infrastructure projects profiled in Bentley’s Infrastructure Yearbook, which is distributed in print and digital formats to nearly 150,000 key media, government, and industry influencers around the world; in addition, all winners, finalists, and project nominees are featured on Bentley’s User Project Profiles website page; enhance their competitive edge by demonstrating to existing and potential clients the value they and their respective organizations add to projects through their innovative BIM advancements;

by demonstrating to existing and potential clients the value they and their respective organizations add to projects through their innovative BIM advancements; receive media coverage from global media and support from the Bentley team in marketing and promoting their respective projects to the media.

For additional information about the Be Inspired Awards program, or to nominate a project, visit www.bentley.com/BeInspired.

About the Bentley Systems Year in Infrastructure Conference

The Year in Infrastructure Conference is a global gathering of leading figures in the world of infrastructure design, construction, and operations. It features a series of presentations and interactive workshops that explore the intersection of technology and business drivers, and how they are shaping the future of infrastructure delivery and investment returns. The Be Inspired Awards showcase and detail nominated projects and project finalist presentations on extraordinary projects that took advantage of Bentley Systems’ BIM advancements to enhance both project delivery and/or asset performance.

About Bentley Systems

Bentley Systems is a global leader in providing architects, engineers, geospatial professionals, constructors, and owner-operators with comprehensive software solutions for advancing the design, construction, and operations of infrastructure. Bentley users leverage information mobility across disciplines and throughout the infrastructure lifecycle to deliver better-performing projects and assets. Bentley solutions encompass MicroStation applications for information modeling, ProjectWise collaboration services to deliver integrated projects, and AssetWise operations services to achieve intelligent infrastructure – complemented by worldwide professional services and comprehensive managed services.

Founded in 1984, Bentley has more than 3,000 colleagues in over 50 countries, more than $600 million in annual revenues, and since 2009 has invested more than $1 billion in research, development, and acquisitions.

Additional information about Bentley is available at www.bentley.com. For Bentley news as it happens, subscribe to an RSS feed of Bentley press releases and news alerts. Visit The Year in Infrastructure Conference website for information on Bentley’s premier thought-leadership event. To view a searchable collection of innovative infrastructure projects from the annual Be Inspired Awards, access Bentley’s Infrastructure Yearbooks. To access a professional networking site that enables members of the infrastructure community to connect, communicate, and learn from each other, visit Bentley Communities.

To download the Bentley Infrastructure 500 Top Owners ranking, a unique global compendium of the top public- and private-sector owners of infrastructure based on the value of their cumulative infrastructure investments, visit BI 500.

Bentley, the “B” Bentley logo, Be, MicroStation, and ProjectWise are either registered or unregistered trademarks or service marks of Bentley Systems, Incorporated or one of its direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. All other brands and product names are trademarks of their respective owners.

Download Related Image:

www.bentley.com/~/asset/4/12686.ashx

2017 Be Inspired Awards will take place in Singapore at Bentley’s Year in Infrastructure Conference.

Image Attribution: Image courtesy of Bentley Systems.

View Related Videos on the Be Inspired Awards:

Promo Video

Attribution: Courtesy of Bentley Systems.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MmgYMoyTcr4&index=1&list=PL3yR8LUA5w7nF_XPZbreQttLPfmkkAVPW

Attribution: Courtesy of Bentley Systems.

View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170306006203/en/