MUNICH, March 15, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Labbrand, the leading China-originated global brand consultancy, is awarded once again for its creative and strategic excellence. Both of its work with kidsland and Zhejiang Circuit were this time recognized by iF Design Award 2017, one of the world's most celebrated and valued design competitions, in the Corporate Visual Identity category.

On Friday, March 10, 2017, iF Design Award held the prestigious awards ceremony in the BMW Welt in Munich, Germany where more than 2,000 guests came together to celebrate outstanding designs and creativity around the world. Labbrand's Design Director Sam Yang, Corporate Branding Associate Director Jacquelien Brussee, and Labbrand France General Manager Nicolas Farman attended the ceremony.

"We are honored to have worked with kidsland and Zhejiang Circuit to help them build a strong brand. It has been inspiring to be part of the force of the growing Chinese brands who are at the center of global innovations. We congratulate our clients and every member of our design team for this great success. We hope to continue to assist Chinese brands inestablishing distinctive identities to compete in a globalized market with unstoppable creativity and vitality!" says Sam Yang, Design Director of Labbrand.

Labbrand's award-winning projects are both in the Communication- Corporate Identity / Branding category. The two projects were previously rewarded with multiple Transform APAC awards at the end of last year.

Kidsland

Kidsland is a premium boutique retail chain for toys in China. After helping kidsland toestablish a distinctive brand positioning, Labbrand developed a refined logo as well as a simple yet dynamic visual identity system to enhance the strategy, delivering an image of kidsland as an interesting and imaginative toy heaven.

Zhejiang Circuit

Labbrand helped Zhejiang Circuit to develop its brand identity with a strategically creative approach. Inspired by the diverse and dynamic sounds in a racing circuit and recreational hub, Labbrand created a comprehensive visual identity system and brand guide for Zhejiang Circuit.

Founded in 1953, iF Design Award is recognized as a symbol of design excellence around the world, welcoming over 5,000 submissions every year. This year, a 58-member jury comprised of international, independent experts convened to select the winners in Product, Communication, Packaging and Service Design, Architecture, Interior Architecture and Professional Concept disciplines. A total of 5,575 entries from 59 countries were judged.

About Labbrand

Labbrand is the leading China-originated global brand consultancy with a rapidly expanding global footprint that includes regional operations in APAC (Shanghai, Singapore), Europe (Paris), and North America (New York). Through brand innovations, we create, grow, and disrupt to be strong and resilient in dynamic markets. We are multi-cultural in approach and cross-disciplinary in research, strategy, naming, design, and digital. Together this gives us the foresight and ability to build brand equity.

labbrand.com