A Perth man has been charged with 11 offences including allegedly assaulting a police officer on reported drunken sprees in Singapore. Jason Peter Darragh has been captured on video obtained by 9 News tussling with police officers and security guards at Changi Airport on April 20. The 44-year-old appeared in a Singapore court on Saturday charged with a string of offences including three counts of using vulgar language on police officers; two counts of using criminal force on them and two counts of causing annoyance to others while drunk in a public place. He has also been charged with allegedly assaulting a police officer which carries a maximum seven-year jail term in Singapore. In the video you can see two police officers attempt to grab Mr Darragh, before he appears to start dancing. A scuffle breaks out before Mr Darragh starts abusing the officers. "Don't f---ing touch me, alright?," he yells. "I'll knock your f---ing head off." Earlier in the footage a police officer plunges a baton into Mr Darragh's stomach and the Perth man reacts by pushing him over. At one point in the video, which lasts a number of minutes, police officers, security guards and members of the public try and subdue Mr Darragh. "Local media outlets in Singapore are referring to it as a drunken spree that happened over a couple of weeks at the end of April and the start of May," 9 News reporter Scott Cunningham said. "The vision was filmed at Changi Airport... you can see a man scuffling with police and at some point security guards actually try and intervene and appear to come to the aid of police before a number of people at the airport try and intervene and try and subdue the man. "But one of the more serious charges is assaulting a police officer... in Singapore if found guilty he could go to jail for up to seven years or be fined or canned or receive a combination of both." The 44-year-old did appear in a Singapore Court on Saturday and was released on bail with surety of $20,000. He is due back in court on Friday.

https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/47ba20ea-9977-48e5-826f-173a7a6f4cad.jpg/r0_225_729_637_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg