The first Navy admiral ever to be charged with a federal crime in connection with his military service was sentenced Wednesday to 1 ½ years in prison for lying about his corrupt friendship with the wealthy namesake contractor at the center of the “Fat Leonard” bribery scandal.

Robert Gilbeau, who pleaded guilty to an obstruction charge, stands out among the active-duty officers nabbed in the scheme both for his rank and his long-standing relationship with Leonard Glenn Francis.

Prosecutors said the two met in 1997, when Gilbeau served aboard the Boxer amphibious assault ship. Francis showered Gilbeau and another officer with the gifts of hotel rooms, dinners and prostitutes during a port visit to Bali. The two would carouse in Singapore off and on for the next 15 years as Gilbeau worked his way up the Navy ladder.

U.S. District Judge Janis Sammartino remarked Wednesday on the “thoughtful, systematic” way Gilbeau appeared to have gone about trying to cover up his involvement with Francis. “You violated the law and dishonored your shipmates, the Navy and the United States of America,” Sammartino said.

With his service dog with him in court, Gilbeau apologized to his family and the Navy.

Besides the time in custody, Gilbeau, 56, will serve three years of probation, work 300 hours of community service and pay the Navy $50,000 in restitution as well as a $100,000 fine.

CAPTION A look inside Las Vegas' Planet 13, billed as the largest marijuana dispensary in the world. A look inside Las Vegas' Planet 13, billed as the largest marijuana dispensary in the world. CAPTION A look inside Las Vegas' Planet 13, billed as the largest marijuana dispensary in the world. A look inside Las Vegas' Planet 13, billed as the largest marijuana dispensary in the world. CAPTION Tijuana residents protest over Central American migrants caravan. Tijuana residents protest over Central American migrants caravan. CAPTION President Trump, Gov. Jerry Brown and Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom tour the fire-wrought devastation in Paradise, Calif. President Trump, Gov. Jerry Brown and Gov.-elect Gavin Newsom tour the fire-wrought devastation in Paradise, Calif. CAPTION After the Woolsey fire shut down road access to Malibu, Jamie Meistrell coordinated volunteers from Redondo Beach to collect supplies and distribute them using his family's boat. After the Woolsey fire shut down road access to Malibu, Jamie Meistrell coordinated volunteers from Redondo Beach to collect supplies and distribute them using his family's boat. CAPTION Gov. Jerry Brown requested a presidential disaster declaration on Nov. 11. Gov. Jerry Brown requested a presidential disaster declaration on Nov. 11.

He is among 20 Navy officials charged in the investigation. Francis and four of his employees have pleaded guilty.

According to prosecutors, Francis’ stable of compromised Navy men steered contracts to his Singapore-based company, Glenn Defense Marine Asia, which provided “husbanding” services — such as water, trash removal, tugboats and security — to visiting ships and submarines.

They also allegedly slipped Francis insider information on Navy logistics and movements, protected him from scrutiny and allowed him to overcharge the Navy by nearly $35 million.

Gilbeau — who was forced to retire at a demoted rank of captain because of the scandal — is being treated for post-traumatic stress disorder and a traumatic brain injury related to a blast in Iraq.

“I never wanted to end my career this way. I’m still proud of my career and to be an American,” he said.

kristina.davis@sduniontribune.com

Davis writes for the San Diego Union-Tribune