There are, of course, many more blunders, but if the DAP-RBA-CTs can improve their debating skills on just those five it would be a good start. The DAP-RBA-CTs must understand that the Malays are not as gullible as you may think and they do not easily swallow all those lies, spins and fallacies hook, line and sinker like the Dapsters and Pakatuns do.

NO HOLDS BARRED

Raja Petra Kamarudin

The DAP Red Bean Army cyber-troopers (DAP-RBA-CTs) need to improve their debating skills if they want to successfully con the Malays and use the Malays to screw Malays — as Superman Hew Kuan Yau revealed is DAP’s plan. The arguments the DAP-RBA-CTs are using to put their points across are so amateurish even primary school children find them hard to believe.

The most common argument that the DAP-RBA-CTs use is that Penang Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng went to jail for defending a Malay girl. They repeat this lie again and again as ‘evidence’ that Guan Eng is not a racist. Actually Guan Eng was jailed not for defending a Malay girl but for a crime under the Sedition Act 1948.

The DAP-RBA-CTs are hoping that by repeating the lie regarding Guan Eng going to jail for defending a Malay girl the Malays may fall for it and actually vote for DAP, or at least vote for one of DAP’s Malay running-dog parties, in the next general election.

The second popular lie that the DAP-RBA-CTs spin is the fallacy that Singapore is more successful than Malaysia and that the Singapore Dollar is three times higher than the Malaysian Ringgit (when the Singapore Dollar used to be one-to-one to the Malaysian Ringgit at one time) because Singapore has a Chinese government while Malaysia has a Malay government. If good governance is determined by race then the Israelis would have appointed a Chinese to lead their country long ago considering that Singapore is considered the Israel of Asia while the Chinese are known as the Jews of the East.

The third lie the DAP-RBA-CTs spin is regarding Malaysia being a secular country and that this is mentioned in the Federal Constitution of Malaysia. They also quote the then Lord President Tun Salleh Abas and First Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman as ‘evidence’ that Malaysia is a secular country. However, the DAP-RBA-CTs keep very quiet regarding what Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad said, which is Malaysia is a Muslim country, especially now that Mahathir is the de facto opposition leader and has offered himself as Pakatan Harapan’s Prime Minister if they win the next general election.

The fourth spin they keep repeating is regarding 1MDB. The DAP-RBA-CTs claim that RM42 billion of 1MDB’s money has disappeared into thin air without explaining where 1MDB’s RM51 billion assets came from and whether it also came from thin air. Of late Mahathir has not been talking so much about 1MDB’s RM42 billion disappearing into thin air because he knows it is not easy to make RM42 billion disappear into thin air in just two years. It took Mahathir himself 22 years to make RM100 billion disappear into thin air and to flush a further RM100 billion down the toilet.

An even sillier spin the DAP-RBA-CTs are spreading is regarding PAS leaving Pakatan Rakyat and refusing to join Pakatan Harapan when it was Lim Kit Siang who announced in June 2015 that Pakatan Rakyat has ceased to exist and that PAS is no longer a member of the opposition coalition. DAP then formed Pakatan Harapan and announced that the PAS splinter-party, PAN, is the new member of the opposition coalition to replace PAS.

There are, of course, many more blunders, but if the DAP-RBA-CTs can improve their debating skills on just those five it would be a good start. The DAP-RBA-CTs must understand that the Malays are not as gullible as you may think and they do not easily swallow all those lies, spins and fallacies hook, line and sinker like the Dapsters and Pakatuns do.