Six Indonesian ISIS fanatics have been jailed, fuelling fears that the sinister terror group is finding a foothold in South East Asia.

A Jakarta court heard the six factory workers pledged allegiance to ISIS, provided a safe haven for Islamist fighters and allegedly plotted a rocket attack on Singapore.

The men offered a transit point for Indonesians coming to and from taking up arms with the barbaric terror organisation in Iraq and Syria.

The revelations come amid grave concerns in Australia of battle-hardened ISIS militants returning after losing ground in the Middle East.

The six Indonesian terrorist suspects, (from right: Eka Saputra, Trio Syafidro, Tarmidzi, Gigih Rahmat Dewa, Hadi Gusti Yanda and Leonardo Hutajulu during their trial in Jakarta)

A Jakarta court heard the six factory workers pledged allegiance to ISIS, provided a safe haven for Islamist fighters and allegedly plotted a rocket attack on Singapore

Australia and other neighbouring nations are holding a summit in August to address the threat of homegrown militants returning from foreign battlefields.

A recent wave of violence from ISIS-linked militants in the Philippines, including the beheading of a police chief, has inflamed the threats to regional security.

The Indonesian men, with aliases including 'Hippopotamus', 'Awesome Criminal' and 'Paddy Field Eel', were sentenced to three to four years behind bars on Wednesday.

One afternoon in August 2015 on the busy port island of Batam - just a short boat ride from Singapore - the group gathered together to record what they believed was a very important message.

After months discussing the issues in Syria, they pledged allegiance to IS and its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

Led by Gigih Rahmat Dewa, also known as Kuda Nil or 'Hippopotamus', the members went by a litany of colourful names, Jakarta's East District Court heard on Wednesday.

The men offered a transit point for Indonesians leaving to, and returning from, taking up arms with the barbaric terror group in Syria

The men were jailed for three years after they were found guilty by the East Jakarta District Court of a conspiracy to commit terrorism for their foiled plot to fire a rocket at Marina Bay in Singapore

Detained Indonesian militant Gigih Rahmat Dewa (L) arrives for a hearing at the East Jakarta court in Jakarta

One, Tarmiji was also known by Harimau Sumatera or 'Sumatran Tiger', Hadi Gusti Yanda's alias was Bandit Gokil or 'Awesome Criminal', while Trio Syafrido went by the name Belut Sawah or 'Paddy Field Eel'.

Two others - Eka Saputra and Leonardo Hutajulu had no known aliases.

The group called themselves the Katibah Gonggong Rebus or 'Boiled Snail Secretariat', in reference to a local delicacy from the Indonesian island.

The six men were arrested last August over an alleged plot to launch a rocket attack at Singapore's glitzy Marina Bay Sands.

Prosecutors alleged this was done at the behest of Bahrun Naim, an Indonesian fighting with IS in Syria - who has been linked to several attacks and plots in Indonesia and is said to have tried to set up a division for explosives and electronics.

A recent wave of violence from ISIS-linked militants in the Philippineshas heightened the threats to regional security. (Pictured, ISIS media shows an extremist waving the ISIS flag in the region)

One image put out by ISIS media purports to show militants rampaging through the southern city

A soldier smashes a door during a house-to-house clearing operation against Islamist militants in Marawi

But on Wednesday Gigih, 31, was the only one to be found guilty of the offence of preparing to commit an act of terrorism.

The other five men were found guilty of the lesser charge of facilitating perpetrators of terrorism.

Judge Nelson Japasar Marbun said the purpose of sentencing them was not 'merely about revenge'.

'The intention is to make the defendant realise and repent so that the defendants would not dare to commit such crimes in the future and in the end, peace and sense of justice in society would be achieved.'

Gigih was sentenced to four years while the others were sentenced to three years.

Prosecutors are deciding whether to appeal having asked for longer jail terms.