BANGKOK, June 9 (Xinhua) -- Prosecutors said they could locate and catch the fugitive Red Bull heir over a deadly hit-and-run accident before deadline of the case, the Voice TV reported on Friday.

The attorney general's spokesman Prayuth Bejraguna told a news conference that related law enforcement bodies were working together to find out the whereabouts of the wanted. He refused to give the details.

He said his agency cannot allow the case to have a negative impact on the country's judiciary system.

Public attention never wanes over Vorayuth Yoovidhya, grandson of a wealthy energy drink fortune "Red Bull," who escaped after he allegedly slammed into a motorcycle cop, dragged him along the road and then sped away from the mangled body in 2012.

Vorayuth, 31, has been called in to face authorities, but he has not shown up, claiming through his attorney that he is sick or out of the country on business.

Just three days before police finally issued an arrest warrant for Vorayuth on April 25, he left the country on a private jet bound for Singapore.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs revoked the passport of Vorayuth on May 6.

For killing the motor cop and fleeing the crime scene in 2012, the businessman is charged with fatal reckless driving, hit-and-run, speeding and property damage. The two latter charges have already expired.

The limitation of hit-and-run charge is five years, which expires on Sept. 3.

Somnuek Siangkong, a spokesman for the Office of Attorney-General, said: "No matter how poor or rich people are, we facilitate justice for them all."

Xi says China, India should focus on cooperation

China, Tajikistan mull high-end, innovative cooperation under Belt & Road Initiative

Xi meets Spanish King Felipe VI on cooperation in B&R construction

China's manned submersible Jiaolong put into sea in Yap Trench

Farmers collect crayfish, rice seedlings in China

In pics: 3D paddy fields in Shenyang, NE China's Liaoning

Highlights of traditional skills competition in C China's Zhengzhou

Scientists identify most complete hatchling preserved in Burmese amber