Australian terror attack plots detailed in accused Bali bombing planner's charge sheet

Posted

Sorry, this video has expired Video: Archive footage shows the destruction caused by the bombing in Bali in 2002 (ABC News)

It has taken almost 15 years, but at the weekend, with no reason given, the United States moved to charge a key figure in the 2002 nightclub bombings in Bali and the 2003 Marriott Hotel bombing in Jakarta.

Key points: Hambali's first move into violent terrorism came after urgings from Osama bin Laden

Charge sheet details discussion of US, Israeli targets in Australia

Hambali has been held by CIA for three years and tortured extensively, which terrorism expert says may help explain why charges are only coming now

Riduan "Hambali" Isomuddin allegedly planned the bombings and could face death if the charges laid by the US war prosecutor proceed to court.

The move is of deep importance to Australia, which lost 88 citizens in the attack that killed 202 people.

The charge sheet, obtained by ABC News, makes for chilling reading, recounting numerous plots for terrorist attacks in Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand.

It is a relook at how connected Indonesia's Jemaah Islamiah (JI) terrorist network was to Middle East terror cells.

Hambali 'moved into violent terrorism after bin Laden urged'

The document from the war prosecutor at the Pentagon stated:

"Hambali, who was an important JI member, became close to [Osama] bin Laden and Al Qaeda associates."

According to the prosecutor, Hambali's first move into violent terrorism came in 1998, after urgings from bin Laden.

It was then he formed a group of JI members to identify US military and civilian targets in Singapore.

The group went on to plot and draft a number of potential attacks — including to bomb a bus carrying US military personnel, dubbed the "Singapore bus station attack", and to attack US warships in the Johor Straits.

In 2001, at the direction of Hambali, physical surveillance of the US and Israeli embassies in the Philippines was also undertaken.

The US, Israeli and British embassies in Singapore were also considered as potential attack sites.

Abu Bakar Bashir — the spiritual leader of JI — approved plans, from Solo in Indonesia, according to the 23-page document.

Discussion of Australian targets detailed in document

The charge sheet also outlined Hambali's dealings with Australian JI member Jack Roche, with the pair meeting in Kuala Lumpur in 2000 to discuss US and Israeli targets in Australia.

Hamabli also funded Roche's travel to Afghanistan.

The document stated Roche was provided $US4,000 to conduct surveillance of the Israeli consulate in Sydney and the US and Israeli embassies in Canberra.

Also in 2000, according to the document, Hambali ordered the attack of churches in Indonesia on Christmas Eve.

The bombings killed 19 people and injured 121.

Between September and November 2001, the document stated Hambali chose four Malaysian nationals to participate in a post-9/11 suicide attack.

They spoke directly with bin Laden during a meeting organised by Hambali.

The document outlined a conversation about another 9/11 attack planned for California.

Between January 2002 and June 2003, Hambali organised surveillance of the El Al Airline counter at the Bangkok airport "to determine how many people were near the counter at the busiest time of the day, in order to devise a plan to conduct a terrorist attack targeting Israeli customers".

Australian International School among possible targets

Of the 2002 Bali nightclub bombings, for which Hambali is facing seven charges, the document stated he wanted a plan to replace the Singapore project and "he did not expect so many people to die and he was surprised by the outcome".

In mid-July 2003, Hambali instructed around $US50,000 be transferred from Thailand to Indonesia and surveillance of targets in Jakarta began.

"The group determined possible targets to be: the JW Marriott Hotel, a Citibank Building, a CALTEX housing complex, the Jakarta International School, the Australian International School, the Chem Chex Supermarket, and the Hero Supermarket," the charge sheet stated.

In August 2003, 11 people — including 10 Indonesian citizens — died after a truck bomb was detonated outside the JW Marriott in Jakarta.

The seven charges against Hambali also relate to that attack.

Hambali 'subjected to very harsh interrogation, torture'

Australian National University terrorism expert Greg Fealy says the charge sheet is important because it provides an insight into jihadist operations of the early 2000s.

Hambali has been at Guantanamo Bay since 2006. He was detained in 2003, and held by the CIA for three years.

He was tortured extensively in the early years, which Dr Fealy said may have been part of the reason why the charges had only come now.

"It has taken him some years to recover psychologically, if not physically, from the kind of very severe interrogation — torture if you will — that he endured," Dr Fealy said.

"One thing is very clear: he was subjected to very harsh interrogation and torture techniques, and there's a number of reports that suggest that this left him deeply traumatised at various stages.

"Now he has been charged it suggests that his mental state is now sufficient that he would be able to legitimately stand trial."

Hambali is also the first Guantanamo prisoner charged under US President Donald Trump's administration.

Former president Barack Obama had wanted the military prison closed.

Topics: terrorism, unrest-conflict-and-war, law-crime-and-justice, crime, united-states, australia, bali