Sands China’s 11 signature restaurants have been recognized for their outstanding wine programs by U.S. lifestyle magazine Wine Spectator.

Restaurants that received a “Two Glasses” Best of Award of Excellence commendation include Portofino, North and Canton at The Venetian Macao, Brasserie and Lotus Palace at The Parisian Macao, and Golden Court and Copa Steakhouse at Sands Macao. Morton’s Steakhouse at The Venetian Macao received a “One Glass” Award of Excellence.

This is the sixth consecutive year that Wine Spectator has commended Sands China restaurants for their outstanding wine lists with these awards.

The awards have three levels: Award of Excellence, Best of Award of Excellence, and Grand Award. The awards are granted according to the depth, range and display of the wine lists.

Vice President of Food and Beverage for Sands China, Philip Chong, commented on the awards, saying: “We are honored that so many of our great restaurants have been recognized by Wine Spectator. We are committed to offering the complete fine dining experience to our customers and these prestigious awards are one of the best indicators that we are succeeding in this.”

Michelin guide street food festival to debut at Studio City

Michelin Guide Hong Kong & Macau will organize its first Michelin Guide Street Food Festival at Studio City Macau in October.

Chefs from Michelin-starred restaurants and Michelin-recommended eateries across Asia will serve their street food creations and signature delicacies.

According to a press release issued yesterday, dishes will be priced at value-for-money rates, with small plates starting from MOP40.

Eateries from Singapore and Japan will be visiting Macau for the first time, including the world’s first-ever street food stall to be awarded a Michelin star, Hong Kong Soya Sauce Chicken Rice and Noodle from Singapore. Humble hawker-turned-Michelin-acclaimed chef Chan Hon Meng will be flying in to cook at Studio City alongside fellow Singaporean Wayne Liew from Keng Eng Kee, the popular street food stall known for its fusion of Hainanese cuisine with Malaysian home-style food. Meanwhile, Japan’s takoyaki eatery Kougaryu Honten will serve Bib Gourmand-awarded takoyaki in three different flavors.

In addition, three of Studio City’s signature restaurants – including one-Michelin-starred restaurant Pearl Dragon, and Michelin-recommended restaurants Shanghai Magic and Bi Ying – will also showcase creative delicacies specially made for the festival.

The gourmet festival is free to attend and will be held at Studio City’s Macau Gourmet Walk from 12p.m. to 8p.m. between October 5 to 8 this year.

Share this: Tweet





