THREE young British men have been sentenced today to jail and a caning for sexually assaulting a Malaysian woman during a stag party in Singapore.

Khong Tam Thanh, Le Michael and Vu Thai Son, all in their 20s, were originally charged with rape but admitted the lesser offence of sexual assault at the city-state's High Court after a four-day trial.

AFP 3 Khong Tam Thanh, 22, is one of the three men jailed

AFP 3 Le Michael covers his face with his phone as he leaves the high court

High Court Judge Hoo Sheau Peng slammed their "reprehensible" conduct and sentenced the trio, British citizens of Vietnamese origin, to jail terms of between five and a half years to six and a half years.

They were also sentenced to between five and eight strokes of the cane each - a punishment dating back to British colonial rule which involves being flogged with a rattan stick.

The three were in Singapore in September as part of a group of nine for a bachelor party, and attended an electronic music festival called Ultra Singapore.

The groom, the brother of Khong, was also on the trip.

They met the 23-year-old woman in a popular nightspot in the city-state. After she had agreed to have sex with one of their friends, a British citizen also of Vietnamese origin identified as Richard Ahn, he took her to his hotel room.

After the pair had sex, Khong, 22, Le and Vu - both 24 - took turns to enter the room and have sex with the woman as she lay drunk and unconscious, the court heard.

MOST READ IN NEWS 'I FELT I'M NOT GOOD ENOUGH' Michael Schumacher's family release haunting footage of F1 ace FIRST DATE DEATH Mum-of-two, 28, and new lover, 31, died on FIRST DATE in 102mph BMW crash HORROR FIND Dad finds girl, 12, hanged after pals call cops over chilling social media post 'HE SHOULD PAY' Mum says Etonian isn't paying child maintenance despite living in £5m house FAMILY TRAGEDY Dad, 50, lay dying in GP surgery as wife sat unaware in waiting room 'a prince tried to save my prince' Mum praises Wills for trying to save son from drowning

While the men took care to make as little noise as possible, the woman woke up as Le was assaulting her.

Prosecutors asked for a prison sentence of between five and seven years.

"The offender must pay for what he has done... they clearly exploited the victim," said deputy public prosecutor G. Kannan.

Khong and Vu, who worked as beauticians in Britain, were convicted of an additional charge of sexual assault by using their fingers to penetrate the woman. Le is unemployed.

AFP 3 Michael will also be caned

The men's lawyers all read out letters from their clients apologising to the victim.

"(Khong) was rash, he was reckless, and now he regrets it," his lawyer Shashi Nathan told the court.

He also offered the victim Sg$5,000 (£2,800) in compensation, which prosecutors said the woman has accepted.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at tips@the-sun.co.uk or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.'