British nationals Khong Tam Thanh (pictured), 22, Le Michael, 24, and Vu Thai Son, 24, have been jailed for six and a half years in jail with caning

Three British men who sexually assaulted a drunk Malaysian woman during a stag do in Singapore have today been jailed for up to six and a half years with caning.

Khong Tam Thanh, 22, Le Michael, 24, and Vu Thai Son, 24, were all initially charged with raping the 23-year-old.

But the trio later admitted to the lesser offence of sexual assault following a four-day trial at the city-state's High Court.

The defendants — who are all British citizens of Vietnamese origin — were sentenced today.

Khong Tam Thanh, 22, was given six years' jail and eight strokes of the cane, Vu Thai Son, 24, was sentenced to six-and-a-half years' in jail and eight strokes of the cane and Michael Le, 24, was jailed for five-and-a-half years and given five strokes of the cane.

Judicial Commissioner Hoo Sheau Peng said their behaviour had been 'reprehensible'.

Sentencing them she said: 'While she was asleep, and quite unable to protect herself, they took advantage of her vulnerable state so as to commit these serious sexual crimes... In doing so, they showed no respect for her dignity and autonomy, and no regard for any harm and hurt they might cause to her'.

The assault took place after the three friends went out to celebrate Khong's brother's stag do, along with six others.

Le Michael (left), one of the three British men who was accused of gang raping an unconscious woman in a Singapore hotel, was pictured leaving the high court today. Le Michael is pictured right

Richard Ahn met the girl at the Zouk nightclub and brought her back to their room at the Carlton Hotel

As well as attending the electronic music festival Ultra Singapore, the group headed to the popular nightspot Zouk.

It was there where they met a 23-year-old woman who agreed to have sex with one of the trio's friends, Richard Ahn, also from Britain.

After she had agreed to have sex with one of their friends, a British citizen also of Vietnamese origin identified as Richard Ahn, he took her to his hotel room at the Carlton Hotel.

After the pair had sex in a room at the Carlton Hotel, Khong, Le and Vu took turns to enter the room and had sex with the woman as she lay drunk and unconscious, the court heard.

While the men took care to make as little noise as possible the woman woke up as Le was assaulting her.

Prosecutors asked for a prison sentence of between five and seven years.

'The offenders must pay for what he has done.

'They clearly exploited the victim,' said deputy public prosecutor G. Kannan.

Khong and Vu, who worked as beauticians in Britain, were convicted of an additional charge of sexual assault.

One of the men accused of sexually assaulting the woman claims he had spoken to her in Zouk nightclub (file photo) earlier in the night and that she consented to sex with him

The men's lawyers all read out letters from their clients in which they apologised to their victim.

'[Khong] was rash, he was reckless, and now he regrets it,' his lawyer Shashi Nathan told the court.

He also offered the victim Sg$5,000 ($3,700) in compensation, which prosecutors said the woman has accepted.