Indonesian authorities have warned that the seismic activity from Bali’s Mount Agung has reached a critical level.

The escalating activity has prompted most insurers to cease new cover on flights for volcanic disruption and the Singapore Government to warn its citizens not to travel to Bali.

Insurance Council of Australia’s spokesman Campbell Fuller said “should travellers find themselves affected by flight cancellations to and from Bali due to volcanic activity, they are urged to contact their travel provider in the first instance regarding alternative arrangements”.

He said that while travel insurance policies varied, “in many instances, travel insurance policies will cover financial losses caused by cancellations or substantial delays brought about by circumstances beyond the customer’s control”.

However, travel agents said that cover ceased on most polices last week.

Some 75,000 people have fled the area surrounding the volcano and are now living in shelters across Bali. The volcano which last erupted in 1963 killing almost 2000 people.

On the island, Bali Nine member Scott Rush is among 166 inmates who have been evacuated from Indonesia's Karangasem prison, amid fears of a volcanic eruption at Mount Agung.

The prison, which lies 23km to the south-east of the volcano that Indonesian authorities fear will soon erupt, is outside of the exclusion zone but no chances were being taken.

Also evacuated was Sydney man Michael Sacatides, who is serving time on drug charges and Indonesian woman Noor Ellis, convicted of the murder of her Australian husband Bob Ellis.

Karangasem prison governor, Kusbyantoro, said all the prisoners had been evacuated.

"We decided to evacuate all the prisoners for our safety," Kusbyantoro told News Corp Australia.

"The alert level of Mount Agung has reached the highest level. Their families are worried."

Yesterday, Indonesia’s National Disaster Management Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said that that “increased frequency of deep volcanic earthquakes, shallow volcanic earthquakes and local tectonic earthquakes indicates that movement of magma to the surface is increasing”.

He said that on “Monday there were 547 shallow volcanic earthquakes and 89 local tectonic earthquakes”.

“Gunung Agung is currently entering a critical phase,” he said.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has not updated travel advice for tourists since the weekend, when it told travellers to consult their airline about the possible effects of an eruption.

That is the despite warnings from the Indonesian government an eruption could be imminent.

New Zealand upped travel warnings to its citizens bound for the holiday island on Monday.