Source: Media Outreach

Headline: SAA Global Education Celebrates the Outstanding Achievements of 2017 Cohort

SINGAPORE – Media OutReach – 28 October 2017 – SAA Global Education (SAA-GE)today celebrates the achievements and hard work of about 150 graduates from theClass of 2017. This year’s graduating class comprises of 28 students who willhave completed their diplomas, 43 students who have completed their bachelordegrees while another 65 students with their professional education.

This ceremony will be graced by Guest of Honour, Ambassador Gopinath Pillai, Ambassador-at-Large in theMinistry of Foreign Affairs, Singapore’s Special Envoy to Andhra Pradesh and theChairman of Malvern International PLC. Our education partners from PlymouthUniversity , University of London, Association of Chartered CertifiedAccountants (ACCA) Singapore, Association of Taxation Technicians SingaporeLimited (ATTS), Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)South East Asia, Pearson Singapore and Singapore Accountancy Commission areamong the distinguished guests present at the ceremony.

Many students showed outstanding achievements in theireducation journey and we have more than 850 ACCA prizewinners till date. Apositive number of graduates showed interest in pursuing further education andmost of our students are able to secure employment prior to the completion oftheir education.

“SAA GE has lots of highly qualified professionals. Passionand strike always go along with them. I set my study goal of passing ACCAwithin 2 years and all on my first try when I was a fresh student. If I do nottake some credits from those lectures I would not reach my short-term goal andI would not be such success in my study in SAA GE.” Ma Xin, Top 30 Graduate, ACCA June 2017 Examination.

“The school also has very helpful and approachable lecturerswho are there to ensure we perform our best during examinations. Although therecan be times of struggle, with SAA-GE, we are never alone. Not only do theyhave attentive administrative staffs that are always ready to assist you, themanagement also ensures that students’ voices and concerns are heard.” Toh Yue Ting, First Class Honours,University of London International Programmes, Bachelor of Science (Honours) inAccounting and Finance

Founded in 1985, SAA Global Education (SAA-GE) has a longestablished track record and has more than 30 years history as a leading accountancyeducation provider in Singapore. Throughout the years, SAA-GE has alsoconsistently produced prize-winners amongst local and international students.At SAA-GE, we listen to the needs of our students and ensure they are equippedwith a good education which will enhance their learning development and improvetheir employability when they graduate.

Prior to the graduation ceremony, Malvern International Plc(AIM: MLVN), provider of educational services in the UK and Asia, is pleased toannounce that it has entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with theInstitute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (“ISCA”) to acquire the entireissued share capital of SAA Global Education Centre Pte Ltd in return forshares at Malvern International PLC.

Mr.Gopinath Pillai, the Chairman of Malvern Group, said: “We are delighted to haveSAAGE join the Malvern Group. This acquisition is in line with Malvern’sinternational strategy announced in June 2017 and that is to focus its brand ona few key development skills, one of which is accounting and financeeducation.” He also said: “Looking forward we are both confident and excited atthe opportunities this acquisition will bring.”

Dr. SamMalafeh, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Mavlern Group, said: “Thisacquisition will provide Malvern with fresh opportunities to reach and workwith the large local partners, and provide access to its highly qualifiedtrainers and lecturers. It will also broaden and strengthen Malvern’s platformas an international hub for accountancy and finance education, adding to theexisting/upcoming offerings in Malaysia and London”.

SAA-GE Graduation Ceremony 2017 is proudly sponsored by ICAEWSouth East Asia and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)Singapore.

Visit our website for thefull list of 2017 graduates.

Published and distributed with permission of Media-Outreach.com.