Sponsored Review





Planning your child’s birthday party? For some parents, it can be really be a blast but for others, sometimes it can be pretty stressful. I belong to the second group.





Because more often than not, it is the massive planning process that keeps parents up all night - birthday party theme, food, guest list, decorations, venue and of course, how to keep a group of (noisy) kids suitably occupied. Major headache, if you ask me.





Or I can choose the simpler option: simply delegate it to KidZania Singapore to guarantee an ultra-fun time for all the birthday child and other kids!





1. Skip the queue

2. Private Party Room with decorations

3. Choose your own Birthday Theme









For Ale's party, the bus was under maintenance so the publicity bus tour was replaced with a Make-your-own-pizza session at Pizza Hut instead. Not that any of the kids complained though!





4. Exclusive role-playing activity based on theme

5. RightZKeeper Appearance

6. Plenty of Fun

Activities

7. KidZania-themed Birthday Cake

8. Food, Glorious Food

9. Personalised Photography

10. KidZania Goodie Bags





Every child loves a goodie bag to take home so need I say more? :)





11. Linger on after the Party





BONUS!

Just for our readers, enjoy an additional S$188nett discount off Kool KidZ Party or Zuper KidZ Party at KidZania Singapore. Quote CHEEKIEMONKIE188 upon booking.

Terms and Conditions

We recently held Ale's 7th Birthday Bash at KidZania Singapore and from cake to food to decorations, all party essentials are all well taken care of. All we had to do was to let the kids enjoy - and enjoy Ale certainly did!After her KidZania Party, I asked Ale what she thought about it and she quipped, "Legendary!" The party was awesome indeed so if you are planning on a birthday party for your child, here are some reasons why theat KidZania Singapore is the perfect birthday party:The birthday child and guests get their own entrance priority, which means everyone skips the main queue!KidZania Singapore has three uniquely themed party rooms, with 2 of the rooms able to accommodate 40 people and one for 60 people. We held our party in the Making friends Café which can hold up to 60 guests and it was beautifully decorated with loads of balloons! Oh, and we had exclusive use of the room for 2 hours as well.There are 5 unique Birthday themes to choose from, with each theme centred around KidZania's RightZKeepers - Urbano, Vita, Chika, Beebop and Bache. Each character stands for a different party theme, ranging from sports, friendship, supermodel, music star and secret agent.Ale chose the Beebop Music Popstar theme, which comes with a set of activities for the kids to take part in. Their eventual goal? To prepare for their debut concert by filming their own music video, attending live radio interviews and even going on a publicity bus tour around the city of KidZania!Depending on the party theme chosen, there will be exclusive role-playing activities at selected establishments. What this means is there is NO need to queue!It is like having a fast pass with your friends, but on a scheduled cycle.Again, based on the party theme selected, one KidZania RightZKeeper will make a special appearance to wish the Birthday child Happy Birthday!Remember I mentioned that Ale chose the Music Star theme? The party's fun activities culminated in a special birthday parade around the entire KidZania Singapore grounds... in a self-driven electric car AND sash & tiara, no less!Suffice to say, the Diva was utterly overjoyed.What's a birthday party without some cake? The KidZania Party package comes with a birthday cake, which are available in three flavours: chocolate, strawberry or vanilla.We chose vanilla!Another thing, a party host is also included in the birthday party package so parents can delegate the task of rounding up the (boisterous) kids to someone else. Heh.The thing with kids and parties is they tend to get really hungry so fast! The KidZania Party package includes buffet-style meals for the stated number of guests and we had a vast variety of choices when it came to food, ranging from Western to Asian cuisine, and even Halal options.We went for the Rasel Birthday Buffet (Halal) which consisted of - Traditional Shepherd’s Pie with Minced Chicken, Cuttlefish Chips with Mayo Dip, Vegetable Spring Rolls, Rocky Shrimp Croquettes, Chicken Chipolata Sausages in Nacho Cheese, Golden Fish Balls, Pasta Ala Pomodoro, Homemade Swiss Rolls, Fresh Fruit Platter and Tropical Fruit Punch.Evidently, the kids enjoy the food!The party package also comes with a personalised photographer who will shadow the birthday child for up to 1 hour. Perfect for parents to simply just enjoy the party with their kids and leave the photo-taking to the professionals. After the party, you can select 16 photos which will be printed out for keepsake.Even though the 2-hour birthday party is up, guests can still stay on inside KidZania Singapore until it closes for the day. Great chance to get employed for more jobs and earn more kidZos!Like I've mentioned, I dread planning when it comes to birthday parties. So I love birthday party packages like the KidZania Singapore's ones, where I can just go and let somebody else do the planning. And the bonus? I think Ale and her friends thoroughly enjoyed the unique celebration and activities!---If you are keen to find out more, KidZania Singapore has 2 fun-filled party packages to choose from. We had the Zuper KidZ Party package. Find out more details. If you are celebrating it on a weekday, you enjoy $400 off too!For more information, contact KidZania Singapore at celebrate@kidzania.com.sg or fill up the form at kidzania.com.sg/birthday-parties/ to create a Kool KidZania birthday experience for your child!• Valid for Kool KidZ Party or Zuper KidZ Party at KidZania Singapore only• Discount is valid for parties held on weekends and public holidays only• For reservation, please email to celebrate@kidzania.com.sg and quote CHEEKIEMONKIE188• Full payment must be made upon booking confirmation• Celebration date between 01 Nov 2017 - 30 Jun 2018• Celebration date, package and timeslot are subjected to availability• Additional requests are chargeable separately• Not to be used in conjunction with other discounts and/or vouchers• This promotion is non-redeemable for cash, non-transferable and non-exchangeable• Sentosa Island admission and parking charges apply• Strictly no outside food and drinks are allowed within the premises of KidZania Singapore• The management reserves the rights to amend the above terms and conditions without notice