Muslim community in Baguio elated by visit of Pope Francis

by Redjie Melvic Cawis / PIA

Baguio City’s Muslim community expressed their solidarity with the Catholic community as they welcome Pope Francis who visits the country from Jan. 15-19.



“In welcoming a distinguished guest, we, Muslims, are with the Filipino nation,” Imam Bedejim Abdullah, a leader from the Muslim community in the city, said.



Abdullah said Muslims appreciate the moral upliftment that will be received by majority of Filipino through the visit of the Pope.



“May the Filipino Catholics find inspiration and also strive to become true followers just as we, Muslims, are striving to become true to our faith,” said Abdullah.



During the meeting of the Pope with the other religious leaders, Abdullah hopes the Roman Catholic Church, especially the schools and other institutions, are encouraged to be more open in their policies towards the Muslim faithful.



Other Muslim leaders also welcomed the Pope and shared their insights about the event. “We stand in solidarity with Pope Francis’ call to respect one another as brothers and sisters, to understand the suffering of others, to not abuse the name of God through violence, and to work together for justice and peace,” National Commission on Muslim Filipinos Secretary and peace panel member Yasmin Busran-Lao said.



“We are one with many Filipinos in welcoming the visit of the Pope in the country. Pope Francis has visited many countries with the call for peace, interfaith dialogue, religious tolerance, and unity, which are cherished values in Islam,” said Young Moro Professionals Network Chair Bai Rohaniza Sumndad-Usman.



Datu Alexander Mama-o, president of the Filipino Alliance for Integrity and or FAIR Movement-Philippines, said they hope that the Pope’s visit will be followed by the passage of the Bangsamoro Basic Law in March, adding it will be a historic law that aims to unite all Filipinos in reaching for a shared dream for peace and economic development.



“We hope the visit of the Pope will touch the hearts and minds of Filipinos, especially our lawmakers, to urge them to work for peace in Mindanao through the proposed law. The Bangsamoro Bill is for peace and unity of all Filipinos,” One Bangsamoro Movement’s head Allan Balangi said.



He said the story of peace-building through the Comprehensive Agreement on the Bangsamoro, having ended decades of struggle in the south, could inspire the rest of the world. Read more: • Panagbenga execom issues guidelines for 2015 contest • State U prexy says BSU on track • Team explores Kalinga’s caves, underground river • Title and logo–making tilt for outstanding volunteers set • DepEd chooses best campus journalists • PHIC launches search for best coordinators



