Writer’s Block Philippines is hosting the first ever Creative Entrepreneurship Summit on 31 January 2015, Saturday,1-5pm, at the Top Shelf of Fully Booked, Bonifacio Global City

Published 8:58 PM, January 23, 2015

Manila, Philippines – There is a common misconception that creative people do not have business sense.

The founders of Writer’s Block Philippines disagree.

When Ana P. Santos and Nikka Sarthou-Lainez started Writer’s Block Philippines (WBP) in 2010, their main focus was to conduct writing workshops that would help aspiring writers jumpstart their freelance writing career. They also wanted to help create a space where freelance writers could talk shop, build connections and share insights.

Five years, dozens of writing workshops, and hundreds of participants later, they continue to do what we love and love what we do.

“We have always believed that you can follow your passion, do what you love and make a decent living,” says Ana P. Santos, WBP co-founder.

“Looking at the booming creative industry, it seems that others are following their passion as well. We have seen growth in graphic design studios and online brands such as OurAwesomePlanet.com, WhenInManila.com, to name a few,” says Nikka Sarthou-Lainez, also co-founder of WBP.

The writing duo has seen this “creative boom” as an impetus to build a community of not just writers but also creative entrepreneurs.

“It’s time to turn passion into a sustainable and profitable business,” say the two.

They thought of bringing together successful creative entrepreneurs who are at the top of their game and are eager to give participants the needed fist pump to take the first leap (it’s never just a “baby step”) to starting their creative enterprise.

Writer’s Block Philippines is hosting the first ever Creative Entrepreneurship Summit on 31 January 2015, Saturday,1-5pm, at the Top Shelf of Fully Booked, Bonifacio Global City.

The event will gather aspiring creative entrepreneurs and creative professionals who believe that one does not have to starve (as in the case of the starving artist stereotype) to be an artist or work in the creative industry. They may have started their own creative business venture or have been dreaming about doing so, but just don’t know where to start.

Guest speakers include Anton Diaz, founder of OurAwesomePlanet.com who has made a career about of being “a foodie”; Darlyn Ty whose need for the perfect planner pushed her to start Belle de Jour Power Planner; Vince Golangco, who started WhenInManila.com and made being a food and travel writer a profession; Mina V. Esguerra, book author and indie publisher; RJ Ledesma who juggles being an author, host and columnist, among others.

Running a creative enterprise can be taught. But to think like a creative entrepreneur, one needs to learn how to create a balance between passion and profit from other creative entrepreneurs. - Rappler.com

Writer’s Block Philippines is dedicated to empowering writers, communicators, and creative entrepreneurs. With the philosophy that writing is both art and craft, both creative and methodical, Writer’s Block Philippines offers a space for writers, communications, and creative to learn, connect, and grow.

For media inquiries, please contact 0917.397.9927 or email writersblock.ph@gmail.com.