Accenture (NYSE:ACN), a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, is announcing the expansion of its footprint in the Philippines with a new delivery center based in Ilocos, set to become operational in the latter part of 2015. This is the third Accenture delivery center in the country, in addition to centers in Metro Manila and Cebu City.

San Nicolas Mayor Melanie Grace Valdez, San Nicolas Vice Mayor Alfredo Valdez, and Accenture Delivery Center for Operations in the Philippines (formerly Accenture BPO) Lead, Benedict Hernandez, led a time capsule laying ceremony to commemorate the official start of construction.

“We are honored that San Nicolas was chosen as the first location for Accenture in Ilocos. We are looking forward to a long-term relationship with Accenture as they build their business in the province. We welcome Accenture to our community and we pledge our commitment to support your endeavors in our municipality,” said Mayor Valdez.

“Our further expansion in the Philippines attests to Accenture’s continued confidence in the country. The delivery center in Ilocos strengthens our company’s commitment and capability in building a greater future for both our clients and our more than 35,000 people in the country,” said Benedict Hernandez.

In addition, Ilocos Norte Governor Imee Marcos said, “We are proud to host the newest operation of a global outsourcing company like Accenture in San Nicolas. Your operations will be a big boost to our local economy. Our people are our greatest asset and here in Ilocos Norte, we have an overabundance of highly-skilled and qualified people, especially in the realm of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). I truly believe in what Ilocanos can do and I am very proud that Accenture has agreed to put up a delivery center in San Nicolas, Ilocos Norte. You have my heartfelt thanks and admiration for believing in me and my constituents.”

Hernandez further disclosed that the Ilocos facility will initially provide Accenture Operations services in health administration and finance for the company’s global clients across Europe and North America. Accenture will hire almost 200 local graduates and experienced professionals in Ilocos to fill these positions.

He also shared that optimal telecommunications infrastructure, an international airport and an abundant talent pool make Ilocos an ideal location for Accenture.

Governor Marcos added, “The provincial government of Ilocos Norte is fully committed to providing more employment opportunities for Ilocanos and we will continue intensifying our efforts to continue promoting Ilocos Norte as a prime destination for BPO companies, as well as further help drive the information technology and business process management industry to new heights.”

The Ilocos Delivery Center joins over 50 delivery centers in Accenture’s Global Delivery Network. With 218,000 professionals across the world, the Accenture Global Delivery Network is the largest and most diversified group of strategy, digital, technology and operations professionals in the world. All of Accenture’s top 100 clients are served in our Global Delivery Network.

About Accenture

Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with approximately 319,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the world’s most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$30.0 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2014. Its home page is www.accenture.com.