Scully has made similar comments since being transferred from Manila to a jail in the southern Philippines city of Cagayan de Oro, where he is alleged to have run a lucrative business involving clients payingthe equivalent of between $US100 and $US10,000 in a pay-per-view scheme to watch videos, some of which have been described as the most shocking seen by Philippines agents fighting human trafficking. One of them involves sex acts and torture in a video allegedly titled the Destruction of Daisy by Scully. The video was uploaded to a porn website.

The allegations against Scully have prompted calls for him to be executed in a country where capital punishment was suspended in 2006.

Philippines police say Scully, faced with what they say is overwhelming evidence against him, including the testimony of a 17-year-old Filipino girl who was his live-in partner, is not denying his involvement in the Philippines' $US1 billion cyber-sex industry. Only days after Scully's arrest, police in several countries are targeting people who have bought child pornography from the country. Police in Copenhagen have detained 10 men on suspicion they paid for live streaming of children being sexually assaulted in the Philippines. They have seized computers, phones and other electronic devices.

Investigators believe Scully, who allegedly defrauded dozens of mostly migrant families in Melbourne of their life's savings, operated a lucrative child cyber-sex business in the Philippines for more than three years, often moving from house to house and employing at least four foreign accomplices and half a dozen Filipinos.

Danish police said that a number of money transactions prompted raids on a dozen houses across Denmark. Similar discoveries in the Netherlands led to the arrest of Scully in the Philippines. Eight children as young as 18 months who are alleged to be Scully's victims have been put into a witness protection program, while investigators suspect a number of other alleged victims are still to be identified. I will make a very in-depth . . . not just comment, but report. That's how remorseful I am. Scully, a father of two, has been charged with murder after the remains of a teenage girl were found under the floor of a house he allegedly rented in 2013. His live-in partner has said the teenager was used in videos.

The partner, who is in jail facing three counts of rape and one count of human trafficking, is seeking to be a state witness in Scully's case. She has been charged with rape, torture, human trafficking and violating cyber-sex laws, as well as the murder charge. Some of the charges relate to the alleged kidnapping of two teenage girls aged 10 and 11 from Cagayan de Oro, who were filmed being forced to dig their own graves before they escaped and fled to their parents. A 13-year-old girl from an impoverished Philippine family, who has emerged as Scully's latest alleged victim, has told police she was supposed to meet one of his Australian clients and perform lewd acts in front of a camera. But the girl said plans were changed at the last minute and Scully instead tried to sell her to a German man for the equivalent of $US2900. She told police that when she heard she was going to be sold she ran away from Scully's rented house. Australian Federal Police investigating Scully's alleged online streaming believe a number were Australians who face arrest and possible jail sentences if identified. AFP agents have travelled to the Philippines to liaise with their counterparts there. They played a key part in the arrest after being asked by Philippines police to examine the hard drives of two computers seized from Scully.