Floyd Mayweather's ex-girlfriend has filed a lawsuit against the boxer, claiming that during a television appearance he misrepresented a night which resulted in him receiving a domestic violence conviction. Josie Harris, mother to three of Mayweather's children, has filed proceedings in the Los Angeles County Court after Mayweather alleged she was using drugs the night which resulting in him pleading guilty to a reduced battery domestic violence charge and no contest to two harassment charges. Mayweather, 38, told Katie Couric that he had been trying to restrain Harris while she was under the influence of drugs. "Did I kick, stomp and beat someone? No, that didn't happen. I look in your face and say, 'No, that didn't happen.' Did I restrain a woman that was on drugs? Yes, I did," he said during the interview, which aired before the fight between Mayweather and Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao on Saturday night. "So if they say that's domestic violence, then, you know what? I'm guilty. I'm guilty of restraining someone." According to legal papers obtained by TMZ, Harris' legal team will allege that Mayweather's lies to Couric "were knowingly fabricated in order to hype Mayweather's upcoming fight with Pacquiao, to avoid bad press by deflecting responsibility for beating the mother of his children". Floyd Mayweather was sentenced to 90 days in jail after it was found he entered Harris' home and beat her in front of her children. In a written police statement, Mayweather's then 10-year-old son Koraun gave his account of the September 2010 attack. "I saw my dad was on my mom and my mom said go to the ofice [sic]," the statement read. "My dad was hiting [sic] her and when my dad left he took my phone and his friend was blocking the stairs." Mayweather has a history of domestic violence. In 2002, he was convicted of two counts of domestic violence and one count of misdemeanour battery after a series of instances involving Melissa Brim, the mother of his eldest daughter Ayanna. Mayweather received a six-month suspended sentence and two days of house arrest after the court found he had struck her face with a car door and, on a separate occasion, punched her in the neck at a shopping mall. In June 2004 he was found guilty of two counts of battery after punching in a night club two women who were friends with Harris. In 2005, Harris brought charges against Mayweather, however they were dropped after she testified that she had lied. His violent history prompted many to suggest that the hype surrounding the boxer's recent fight against Pacquaio was misguided.

https://nnimgt-a.akamaihd.net/transform/v1/crop/frm/silverstone-feed-data/8b9d0786-af9b-4f91-bc8e-bf0f9ccc91a8.jpg/r0_165_1024_744_w1200_h678_fmax.jpg

Floyd Mayweather's ex sues after he says she was on drugs when he attacked her Mary Ward facebook SHARE

twitter TWEET

email

whatsapp