To judge by the horrified reaction of the medical Establishment, anyone might think David Cameron was advocating the end of the National Health Service.

In fact, he is proposing quite the opposite: an NHS providing a full range of services, seven days a week, backed by a substantial injection of taxpayers’ money.

Is this really too much to ask, at a time when patients are 16 per cent more likely to die if they are admitted to hospital on a Sunday than a Wednesday?

To judge by the horrified reaction of the medical Establishment, anyone might think David Cameron was advocating the end of the National Health Service

Yes, there will be difficulties. NHS rotas and working practices will have to change, bringing them more into line with those widespread in the 24/7 private sector.

Crucially, this in turn will mean redrafting Labour’s botched contracts, which paid GPs substantially more for working fewer hours – the principal cause of weekend overcrowding in A&E.

It will also mean training more doctors. Indeed, short-sighted governments have relied for far too long on recruiting from overseas, while British medical schools have offered too few places to bright youngsters clamouring to get in.

Adding a further headache for ministers, older family doctors may choose to retire early rather than accept the shake-up required (and after more than a decade on inflated pay, many can afford it).

Yet with proper cooperation between the medical profession and ministers, all these difficulties can surely be surmounted.

How depressing, therefore, that the knee-jerk reaction of the ever-obstructive British Medical Association has been to accuse Mr Cameron of ‘empty headline-grabbing’, while the head of the Royal College of Nursing warns that his members will take industrial action to resist any changes they don’t like.

Ministers must not be intimidated. They have a strong public mandate to provide a 24/7 NHS. They must be bold in carrying it out. For if they are over-cautious today, voters will not thank them in five years’ time.

Filipino Victorino Chua (pictured) is awaiting sentence for double murder and mass poisoning

Life and death checks

As Filipino Victorino Chua awaits sentence for double murder and mass poisoning, demands for an inquiry into the recruitment and vetting of foreign nurses are surely unanswerable.

For the truth is that the implications of this case extend far beyond the depravity of a lone psychopath, who slipped through the net with wholly inadequate checks.

Indeed, only now can the Mail reveal our own role in unearthing details of Chua’s suspect background – and a deeply disturbing trade in bogus nursing qualifications in the Philippines.

True, the NHS would be sunk without nurses from overseas, the great majority of whom are dedicated and well trained.

But with half of hospital trusts staging recruitment drives in 16 countries since 2012 – and bosses not even insisting on fluency in English – the public needs reassurance that proper checks are made.

As Chua’s case so chillingly proves, this is a matter of life and death.

After Bobby and Christi Shepherd died of fumes from a faulty boiler in a Corfu hotel, does Thomas Cook seriously believe it has made amends by giving Unicef half the £3million it received in compensation – partly for damage to its reputation?

Given its appallingly insensitive treatment of the dead children’s grief-stricken parents, could any sum make up for the harm the holiday firm has inflicted on its own good name?

When gas and electricity companies kept tariffs high as wholesale costs fell, they were quick to blame Ed Miliband’s threat of an energy price freeze.