MANILA, Philippines, July 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Frost & Sullivan will be recognizing top companies in the ICT, logistics, energy, environment, building technologies and agriculture sectors at the 2015 Philippines Excellence Awards at the Shangri-la Makati on July 16.

Mr. Ajay Sunder, Vice President at Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific said that the Philippines Awards program first started in 2012, showcasing outstanding IT and telecommunications companies in the local market.

This year, a total of 26 awards will be presented to various companies in the ICT, logistics, building technologies, energy, environment and agriculture sectors.

"We believe that a comprehensive analysis on best practices is an invaluable source to companies. Such an analysis will also enable the companies to formulate strategies and to better their business processes which will ultimately drive corporate growth," Mr. Sunder added.

The 2015 Philippines Excellence Awards will recognize companies demonstrating best practices across various industries in the Philippine market. The objective of this awards program is to spur these industries forward by highlighting leading companies and individuals who inspire and influence the industry's performance.

The 2015 Philippines Excellence Awards recipients are identified based on in-depth interviews, analysis, and extensive secondary research conducted by Frost & Sullivan's analysts. Companies are typically studied on their revenue growth, market share in a specific category and growth in market share, leadership in new product introduction and innovation, breadth of products and solutions, major customer acquisitions, as well as business and market strategy in order to identify best practices.

For more information on the awards, please visit http://www.frost-apac.com/philippinesawards/

About Frost & Sullivan

Frost & Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, works in collaboration with clients to leverage visionary innovation that addresses the global challenges and related growth opportunities that will make or break today's market participants.

Our "Growth Partnership" supports clients by addressing these opportunities and incorporating two key elements driving visionary innovation: The Integrated Value Proposition and The Partnership Infrastructure.

The Integrated Value Proposition provides support to our clients throughout all phases of their journey to visionary innovation including: research, analysis, strategy, vision, innovation and implementation.

provides support to our clients throughout all phases of their journey to visionary innovation including: research, analysis, strategy, vision, innovation and implementation. The Partnership Infrastructure is entirely unique as it constructs the foundation upon which visionary innovation becomes possible. This includes our 360 degree research, comprehensive industry coverage, career best practices as well as our global footprint of more than 40 offices.

For more than 50 years, we have been developing growth strategies for the global 1000, emerging businesses, the public sector and the investment community. Is your organization prepared for the next profound wave of industry convergence, disruptive technologies, increasing competitive intensity, Mega Trends, breakthrough best practices, changing customer dynamics and emerging economies?

Contact Us: Start the discussion

Join Us: Join our community

Subscribe: Newsletter on "the next big thing"

Register: Gain access to visionary innovation

Media Contact:

Carrie Low

Corporate Communications – Asia Pacific

Phone: +603.6204.5910

Email: carrie.low@frost.com

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/frost--sullivan-to-recognize-top-companies-in-philippines-at-the-2015-philippines-excellence-awards-300110147.html

SOURCE Frost & Sullivan

Copyright (C) 2015 PR Newswire. All rights reserved