OLONGAPO CITY, Philippines - An American Marine charged with murder of a transgender in the Philippines denied having killed her as he told a regional court that he had choked her until she was unconscious.

Lance Corporal Joseph Scott Pemberton said he choked Jeffrey "Jennifer" Laude in a motel room on Oct 11, 2014, because he found out that his sex partner that night was a man, not a woman, according to the victim's lawyer.

Pemberton, 20, was arrested in connection with the death of the 26-year-old Filipino, whose name at birth was Jeffrey.

Pemberton had met Laude in an Olongapo City nightclub while he was on liberty during military exercises, then accompanied her to a nearby hotel room, where she was later found dead.

Lawyer Harry Roque, lead counsel for the Laude family, said Pemberton told the court that he killed her in self-defense.

During a break in the trial, the lawyer told reporters that Pemberton cited suffering from "gay shock syndrome," also known as "homosexual panic".

"He was furious that he was deceived. He felt that he was raped. His testimony was he wanted to grope his partner but he discovered that the latter was not a woman," Roque said.

These circumstances provoked him into attacking Laude, Roque said.

"We were already expecting from Pemberton's camp that they would use the gay shock syndrome as their defense," he said.

But Roque said that the homosexual panic defense is not present in Philippine criminal law.

Defense lawyer Rowena Flores said Pemberton told the court that Laude was alive when he left her in a shower in the motel.

He claimed he pushed her away and that she slapped him back. That was when he choked her. Pemberton claimed he panicked after seeing her unconscious and left.

"After some time, to subdue Jeffrey, Joseph Scott Pemberton held [Laude's] head under his armpit. Jeffrey stopped moving. Joseph Scott Pemberton tried to revive [her]," Flores added.

Flores said she will present evidence that raises the possibility that someone else killed Laude.

Government prosecutors charged Pemberton with murder, saying there was a probable cause that he killed Laude, who had apparently been strangled to death.

The court has barred reporters from covering the murder trial but has allowed lawyers to provide details of the day's hearing.