KOTA KINABALU: The High Court here has fixed February 5 to deliver a ruling on whether 27 Filipinos and three locals facing charges in the Lahad Datu intrusion trial should enter their defence.

Justice Stephen Chung fixed the date after hearing submissions from the prosecution and defence today.

The 30 people are facing one to multiple charges, including one that carries the death penalty, linked to the armed incursion that occurred nearly three years ago.

The prosecution has produced 166 witnesses in the hearing, which spanned 239 days from January 6, 2014 to January 5 this year.

During oral submissions, the defence contended that no evidence produced during the hearing showed that the actions of some of the accused was tantamount to waging war against the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, an offence punishable by death.

Counsel N Sivananthan, who was appointed by the Philippine Government to represent its nationals, said his clients were not caught doing anything incriminating during their arrest and were initially investigated for immigration offences.

“In the circumstances of this case, the mere presence of the accused persons is not incriminating as it is not in dispute that there are thousands of individuals of Sulu descent who have been living in Sabah for ages.

“There has to be positive evidence of involvement before the legal requirements are satisfied. Presence per se does not equate to guilt,” he said.

Ram Singh, who is the counsel representing a local named Mohamad Ali Ahmad, said none of the witnesses who testified against his client could link his actions to the two charges he faces, which are waging war and being a member of a terrorist group.

Counsels for the other local men like Abdul Gani Zelika, who represented Abd Hadi Mawan and Putli Noor Asikin Datu Gulam (Pabblo Alie), contended that the evidence against their clients was based on hearsay.

Deputy Public Prosecutor Mohd Dusuki Mokhtar did not deny that the prosecution was lacking certain evidence on certain accused persons.

However, he said there was circumstantial evidence that suggested the accused persons were involved in the intrusion.

Besides waging war and being a member of a terrorist group, some of the accused were also alleged to have recruited members for a terrorist group or alleged to have wilfully harboured individuals they knew to be members of a terrorist group.

The offences were allegedly committed between February 12 and April 10, 2013.

– BERNAMA



