Robert Hall from Calgary, the second of four hostages, was beheaded by the terrorist Islamic rebel group from captives they abducted in Jolo in Sept 2015.

Robert Hall from Calgary, the second of four hostages, was beheaded by the terrorist Islamic rebel group from captives they abducted in Jolo in Sept 2015. Facebook/Huntahan, The OFW Experience

Islamic brutality continues. After the Taliban skinned alive and threw a young Afghan man off a 10-storey clip, the Abu Sayyaf beheaded a 50-year-old Canadian hostage on Monday in southern Philippines.

The victim was Robert Hall from Calgary, the second of four hostages beheaded by the terrorist Islamic rebel group from four captives they abducted in Jolo in Sept 2015. Sixty-eight-year-old John Ridsdel, the first victim, was killed by the group on April 25.

In a phone call to Philippine media, the Abu Sayyaf spokesman said on Monday that Hall was executed after the 3 pm deadline to pay the ransom lapsed. In April, the group demanded $6.4 million ransom payment for the release of each hostage whom they threatened to decapitate, reports Al Jazeera.

That leaves two hostages still held by Abu Sayyaf – Filipino Marites Flor and Norwegian Kjartan Sekkingstad, reports The Telegraph. It was the Islamic State which revived the use of decapitation to execute their captives.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said that he was saddened by new of Hall’s beheading, but stresses, “The government of Canada will not and cannot pay ransoms for hostages to terrorist groups, as doing so would endanger the lives of more Canadians.” He reiterates Ontario’s commitment to work with Manila and the international community to pursue behind the hostages’ death.

After news of Hall’s death spread, Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao Governor Mujiv Hataman said, “It has only been a week since Ramadan began, and it is appalling that this holy month we set aside for prayer and reflection has already been violated by extremists here and abroad, as they wage violence in the name of our faith.”

In a The Guardian discussion on the question – Does beheading hurt? – Gavin Woodhall from Bristol explains that decapitation would cause a dramatic drop in blood pressure causing unconsciousness. He adds, “Even a relatively small drop in blood pressure is enough to cause fainting.”

Ray from Ontario notes that cutting the jugular vein would result in consciousness for only about four seconds after which the victim would not feel pain. However, Kris Johnson of US says blunt force from an axe would make the victim unconscious, but a sharp guillotine blade would cause the victim immense pain for 40 seconds.

VIDEO: Canada PM Trudeau condemns “cold-blooded” killing of hostage in Philippines