ONTARIO, Canada - Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that another Canadian citizen who had been taken hostage by Abu Sayyaf militant group last year, had been killed.

According to reports, Abu Sayyaf militants on June 13 said that the beheaded Canadian citizen Robert Hall at Sulu province.

According to the Inquirer, Abu Raami, spokesperson of Abu Sayyaf said, "We assure that the body will be brought to Jolo for everyone to see. We cannot jeopardise our location.' 

Canadian mining consultant Robert Hall, Canadian John Ridsdel, Norwegian Kjartan Sekkingstad and Filipino Maritess Flor were reportedly seized by armed men and handed over to Abu Sayyaf on September 21, 2015.

Ridsdel had been beheaded by the militants on April 25 after the ransom of P300 million was not paid.

In a video released last month, Hall had said, "I am told to tell you that on June 13 at 3 pm, I will be murdered if [Abu Sayyaf's] demands are not met.'

Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau announced that Canada has "reason to believe' that Hall had been murdered.

He said, "While Canadian officials are working closely with authorities in the Philippines to formally confirm Mr. Hall's death, we have compelling reason to believe that reports to this effect are, unfortunately, true. The vicious and brutal actions of the hostage-takers have led to a needless death. Canada holds the terrorist group who took him hostage fully responsible for this cold-blooded and senseless murder.'

According to reports, Trudeau had been against paying any kind of ransom to the militant group. Even after Ridsdel was beheaded last month, he did not budge.

He said, "With the tragic loss of two Canadians, I want to reiterate that terrorist hostage-takings only fuel more violence and instability. Canada will not give into their fear mongering tactics and despicable attitude toward the suffering of others. This is precisely why the Government of Canada will not and cannot pay ransoms for hostages to terrorist groups, as doing so would endanger the lives of more Canadians.'

However, the Star reported that Canadians remained at risk overseas even if the country refuses to pay ransom.