MANILA, Philippines – Eight more suspected drug pushers were killed in separate incidents over the weekend, further increasing the number of drug-related deaths to 42 following the May 9 elections.

Two suspected drug pushers were killed in an alleged shootout with policemen in Antipolo City on Saturday while five more were killed in separate incidents in Laguna and Manila early yesterday.

The numbers have spiked this month as outgoing Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte is preparing for his inauguration on June 30 as the 16th president of the republic.

Duterte made a campaign promise to eradicate crime and illegal drugs in the first six months of his presidency.

Reports showed that from May 10 to June 18, there were at least 34 suspected drug pushers getting killed in a shootout with lawmen.

This included the two suspected drug pushers who were killed in Las Piñas and three more in Nueva Ecija last Friday.

In Manila, a suspected drug pusher was killed by unidentified men at Port Area early yesterday.

Police said Gary Boy Lagare was shot dead by two men who approached him while standing along a dimly lit portion of 11th Street.

Investigators said a sachet of shabu was retrieved from the victim and several spent .45 caliber and 9mm shells s were recovered from the scene.

Rizal provincial director Senior Supt. Adriano Enong Jr. identified the slain suspects only as “Kalkal” and “Alan,” who died at the scene after shooting it out with undercover operatives of the Antipolo City Police during a drug sting.

A certain “Haket” was also killed in a shootout with arresting policemen in San Pablo City, Laguna early yesterday.

In San Pedro and Cabuyao, also in Laguna, three who were identified only as “Dondon,” “Pogi” and “Eenkie” were killed in a botched drug sting on Saturday.

Sta. Rosa police director Supt. Reynaldo Maclang said Anthony Evangelista was killed in a gunfight with policemen in a drug sting in Barangay Sinalhan on Friday.

Maclang added 16 more suspected drug pushers were rounded up in a police raid in Barangay Domingo, also on Friday.

Target list

In Metro Manila, some 38 police stations were given a list by barangay officials of suspected drug dealers in their communities.

Quezon City ramped up their target list by rounding up eight suspected drug pushers over the weekend.

National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO) chief Director Joel Pagdilao said they are checking out a total of 1,706 barangays in the list.

“The 1,706 barangays in Metro Manila have already submitted their list of drug personalities in their respective jurisdiction and it is now being validated by the intelligence units of the 38 police stations,” Pagdilao said.

Pagdilao is hoping the watch list would be submitted to incoming president Rodrigo Duterte on his inauguration on June 30.

Duterte vowed to cleanse the country of illegal drugs and wanted Congress to reenact the death penalty law with the suggestion of hanging drug offenders.

Reports showed Duterte’s underlings have started coordinating various police units and anti-illegal drug agencies to get their respective list of drug personalities in their areas to be added in a target list.

Duterte wanted the barangay officials to spearhead his administration’s drive against drug pushers.

Under the “Lambat Sibat” program of the Philippine National Police (PNP), district and station commanders were directed to identify and neutralize at least 10 drug personalities in their areas of responsibility.

The NCRPO said they secured more than 50 percent of their targets before the May 9 elections.

“Because a big number of drug personalities were already neutralized by the NCRPO, we are now in the process of validating our watchlist so the new government can have fresh targets,” Pagdilao said.

More than 17,000 individuals have also been arrested during the period in an intensified anti-illegal drugs campaign.

The police in Central Luzon rounded up 12 suspected drug pushers in Nueva Ecija and Angeles City on Saturday.

PNP spokesman Chief Supt. Wilben Mayor pointed out Central Luzon recorded the most number of suspects killed in encounters at 25, followed by Southern Tagalog region, which includes Laguna and Rizal, with 14 drug suspects killed between Jan. 1 and June 15.

Mayor said the PNP is now focused on illegal drugs, following Duterte’s priority.

Mayor also clarified the suspected drug traders and pushers were killed in legitimate police operations. – With Cecille suerte Felipe, Ed Amoroso, Rey Galupo, Romina Cabrera, Ric Sapnu