MANILA, Philippines — The government peace panel confronted the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) following reports that suspected New People's Army (NPA) guerillas attacked government troopers in Davao del Norte.

Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella said government peace panel chairman Silvestre Bello III talked to NDFP panel Fidel Agcaoili regarding the tragic incident in Davao del Norte last Wednesday.

Agcaoili, however, said that he was informed that the NPA has been on active defense mode since July 26, a day after President Rodrigo Duterte declared a unilateral ceasefire with communist rebels.

"It is disheartening but the NPA failed to respect the unilateral ceasefire declared by President Duterte last Monday during the SONA," Abella said in a press briefing on Friday.

The NPA's attack in Davao del Norte left one Citizen Armed Force Geographical Unit member dead and four others wounded.

READ: Militiaman dead, 4 wounded in NPA ambush in Davao del Norte

The government peace panel is still awaiting the result of the NDFP's verification regarding the incident, Abella said.

"Agcaoili further said that just like (Duterte), the NDFP is committed to resume the peace negotiations to address the roots of the armed conflict towards a just and lasting peace as reiterated in the 15 June 2016 Oslo joint statement that affirms all past agreements," the presidential spokesperson said.

Abella reiterated the president's call to the communist rebels to reciprocate the government's declaration of a unilateral ceasefire.

Duterte called on the Communist Party of the Philippines to explain why the NPA staged the ambush and threatened to lift the ceasefire.

"I am issuing a warning to the communists. I called one of the lawmakers of the Left and (government chief negotiator Silvestre) Bebot (Bello). I told their congressman: 'What is this? Are we into this truce or are we not?'" Duterte said on Thursday.

Abella said that the president does not a have a timeline for waiting for the NDFP's response and that Duterte is only giving them a "window of opportunity."

"As soon as the trust is restored, then things will proceed as agreed upon," Abella said.