MANILA, Philippines - Human Rights Watch in a report on Thursday said Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and other senior officials were ultimately responsible for the killings of drug suspects as part of the government's extreme crackdown on drugs in the country.

“Our investigations into the Philippine drug war found that police routinely kill drug suspects in cold blood and then cover up their crime by planting drugs and guns at the scene,” said Peter Bouckaert, emergencies director at Human Rights Watch and author of the report.

“President Duterte’s role in these killings makes him ultimately responsible for the deaths of thousands.”

According to the rights group, masked gunmen involved in the killings appeared to be working closely with the police, contrary to government claims that vigilantes or rival gangs were behind the majority of the killings.

The rights group's reports said in several instances it probed, suspects in police custody were later found dead and classified by police as “found bodies” or “deaths under investigation.”

In response, Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella said, “The observation that the Philippines is in the midst of a ‘human rights calamity’ is thoughtless and irresponsible."

“It is a war precisely to protect humanity from a modern-day evil. To say otherwise is to undermine society’s legitimate desire to be free from fear and to pander to the interests of the criminals,” he said.

HRW has said the extrajudicial killings could amount to crimes against humanity.

Meanwhile, recent images of hundreds of prisoners in a Philippine jail sitting naked while being searched for drugs has sparked more outrage.

The inmates are shown in the images naked, sitting cross-legged on the floor while anti-drug agents, police and military searched their cells.

Amnesty International said in a statement, "This incident clearly amounts to cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment of prisoners."

Human Rights Watch added, "The conduct of these searches - out in the open and permitting photographs to be taken - was inhuman and degrading and violated the prisoners' rights to privacy.”

Duterte’s intention to bring back the death penalty for drug-related crimes has also been denounced by critics as "inhumane."

A majority of politicians in the lower house of congress passed a second reading of the bill last night, clearing one of the main obstacles in plans to have make the death penalty legal by May.