

At Least 8 Foreign Militants Fighting in Marawi, Philippine Army Says



MARAWI CITY, Philippines – The Philippine Army confirmed on Wednesday that at least eight foreign militants are fighting against government troops in clashes that began on March 23 in the southern city of Marawi.



Military spokesperson, Brigadier-General Restituto Padilla, said during a press conference that officials have been working with different governments to identify the nationalities of the foreign guerillas, of whom there could be up to a dozen.



Padilla said material and documents recovered from the troubled areas uncovered the existence of the foreign fighters.



Around five or six of them have now been neutralized and authorities are attempting to verify their identities.



At least 104 people, including 19 civilians, have died in clashes between the army and the rebel Maute group, which has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State terror organization.



The clashes began on May 23 when a military operation failed to capture Isnilon Hapilon, a senior leader of the Abu Sayyaf terror group also linked to IS, who was being protected by Maute.



The military spokesperson said they believe Hapilon is hiding in the area, which is why the militants have been putting up so much resistance.



As of Wednesday, clashes were continuing in parts of central Marawi, where militants have entrenched themselves. The number of civilians in the area is unknown.



The spokesperson also said that if people are trapped in the troubled areas and they are aware of soldiers being present, they should raise a white flag and leave the house with women and children.



The militants set fire to a police station, school, jail and church, where they also kidnapped a priest and 13 parishioners, before military forces reached the area on May 23.



The army is currently trying to verify the authenticity of a video showing several allegedly kidnapped people demanding that the government cease air operations, among other demands by the militants, in exchange for saving their lives.



Padilla said the government is not negotiating with the militants.



According to the declarations in the video, nearly 240 civilians remain trapped in areas controlled by the Islamist rebels.



The soldiers are operating under martial law, declared by President Rodrigo Duterte over the island of Mindanao on the same day the conflict erupted.



The army, with the support of airstrikes, is trying to wipe out some 40 or 50 rebels fighting in different areas of the island, although the number could be higher after the insurgents stormed a prison last week and freed several inmates who are believed to have joined them.



Nearly 100,000 people in Marawi – roughly half of the city’s total population – have been evacuated to shelters in the nearby towns of Iligan and Cagayan de Oro, the spokesperson for the South Lanao Crisis Management Committee, Zia Alonto Adiong, told EFE.



The rest have fled to nearby towns, although an estimated 2,000 civilians are still trapped amid the crossfire.



