Faeldon protests: ‘I will not attend Congress probes’ 29 SHARES Share it! Share Tweet

By Vanne Elaine Terrazola

Former Customs chief Nicanor Faeldon skipped the Senate hearing on the P6.4-billion shabu shipment released under his nose and instead challenged lawmakers to file charges against him.

Faeldon did not appear in the continuation of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee Thursday and said he will “attend all investigations to be conducted by a competent court anytime” when cases are filed against him.

In his three-page letter to Senator Richard Gordon, blue ribbon committee chair, the resigned Bureau of Customs (BOC) commissioner said his absence was a “protest” against the accusations hurled against him.

He cited Sen. Panfilo Lacson’s privilege speech which implicated him in the corruption at the BOC, denying claims that he (Faeldon) received from importers P75 million as bribe for the swift release of goods. He added said Senator Antonio Trillanes also lied about his allegation that he was at the center of the Customs controversy.

“To protest this seemingly unlimited power of privilege speeches, I will no longer attend to any inquiries of both Houses of Congress until a competent court has clearly defined the limitations of the privilege of legislative immunity vis-à-vis the constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizens of this country,” Faeldon said.

“Those Senators and Congressmen who have lied to malign me and other innocent resource persons have destroyed our reputations, that of our families and caused daily trauma to us,” he added.

The ex-Customs official lamented he was not given the opportunity to fully explain his side in the Senate probes, expressing his frustration for being limited to “only answer by yes or no.”

He clarified, on the other hand, that he does not defy and continues to respect the Senate as an institution.

Gordon, commenting on the letter, said Faeldon’s remarks were “contemptuous.” Gordon said they will discuss among senators should they pursue the contempt case against the former BOC official.

Faeldon, meanwhile, attached in his letter a waiver to the Republic Act 1405 or Bank Secrecy Law authorizing the Senate and House of Representatives to look into all his bank accounts for lifestyle check to clear his name from the allegations of corruptions.

“You are free to look into all my bank accounts. All my brothers, sisters, neohews, and nieces are also willing to sign a waiver of their banks accounts,” Faeldon said.

Tags: Bureau of Customs, Faeldon protests: ‘I will not attend Congress probes’, inquiry, Manila Bulletin, Nicanor Faeldon, probe, Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, shabu shipment